 
 
CFR Working Paper NO. 11-05 
 
 
 
 
The Prevalence of the Disposition Effect in 
Mutual Funds' Trades 
 
 
G. Cici 
 

The Prevalence of the Disposition Effect in Mutual Funds' Trades 
 
 
 
 
Gjergji Cici 
 
 
Mason School of Business 
College of William & Mary 
Williamsburg, VA 23187, USA 
& 
Centre for Financial Research (CFR)  
University of Cologne 
Cologne, Germany 
757-221-1826 gjergji.cici@mason.wm.edu 
 
April 22, 2011 
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I thank an anonymous referee for providing exceptionally useful comments and suggestions. I also thank Gordon 
Alexander, Vikas Agarwal, Luca Benzoni, Stephen Brown (the editor), David Dubofsky, Scott Gibson, Ross Levine, 
Terry Odean, Meir Statman, Rajdeep Singh, Andy Winton, seminar participants at SUNY Buffalo, University of 
Minnesota, College of William and Mary, Suffolk University, Temple University, Wharton Research Data Services, 
and conference participants at the 2005 FMA meetings for their insightful comments. A previous version of this 
paper was circulated under the titles “The Impact of the Disposition Effect on the Performance of Mutual Funds” 
and “The Relation of the Disposition Effect to Mutual Fund Trades and Performance”. All errors are my 
responsibility. 

 
 
 
The Prevalence of the Disposition Effect in Mutual Funds' Trades 
 
 
 
Abstract 
US equity mutual funds, on average, prefer realization of capital losses to capital gains. Nevertheless, 
a substantial fraction exhibits the disposition effect of realizing gains more readily than losses. My 
analysis suggests that learning effects have reduced the manifestation of the disposition effect over 
time, implying that academic research has influenced industry practices. When funds experience 
outflows and are managed by teams of portfolio managers they are more susceptible to selling 
disproportionately more winners than losers. Disposition-driven behavior affects investment style, 
causing lower market betas and characteristics of value-oriented and contrarian styles but has no 
observable effect on fund performance. 

 
1
I. Introduction 
The tendency to hold onto losses and sell winning investments, termed the disposition effect, 
is a form of irrational behavior explained by the prospect theory of Kahneman and Tversky (1979). 
While this effect has been extensively tested among retail investors (e.g., Shefrin and Statman 
(1985); Odean (1998); and Grinblatt and Keloharju (2001))1, similar behavioral tendencies among 
money managers are also receiving growing attention (e.g., Wermers (2003); Frazzini (2006); 
O’Connell and Teo (2009); and Jin and Scherbina (2010)). This paper examines issues related to the 
presence of the disposition effect within an important class of professional money managers, US 
equity mutual funds. Employing thirty years of holdings data from a comprehensive set of 3,268 US 
equity mutual funds, I conduct a two-fold analysis: First, I examine the extent to which the 
disposition effect is present in the equity trades of mutual funds. Second, I investigate how the 
disposition effect influences mutual funds’ investment style and performance. 
As professional investors, mutual funds have access to superior investment technologies and 
constantly trade securities in the financial markets. The experience acquired through continuous 
trading presumably makes mutual funds more skilled and consequently more likely to avoid 
behavioral biases than the average retail investor.2 Consistent with this view, I document that, on 
average, mutual funds do not show a tendency to realize gains more readily than losses. This finding 
is robust to different measurement methods, different subperiods, and different fund subgroups 
defined by the funds’ investment objectives and even holds after controlling for past stock returns. 
                                                 
1 This effect has been documented in an experimental setting (e.g., Weber and Camerer (1998)); for home buyers and sellers 
(e.g., Case and Shiller (1988) and Genesove and Mayer (2001)); for Israeli investors (e.g., Shapira and Venezia (2001)); for 
futures traders at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (e.g., Locke and Mann (2005)); and for treasury bond futures’ traders (e.g., 
Coval and Shumway (2005)). 
2 Seru et al. (2010) show that investors are more likely to avoid behavioral biases as they gain experience through trading. 

 
2
This is welcome news as it suggests that, given the size of their trades and holdings, mutual funds 
serve as potential mitigators of distortions caused by the behavioral biases of retail investors. 
Despite the aggregate results, I observe a great deal of heterogeneity among my sample 
funds, as 22 to 55 percent of them exhibit a propensity to realize gains more readily than losses. 
While this pattern is consistent with the disposition effect for this subset of funds, it could also be 
caused by random variation in the empirical distribution. Exploring this alternative explanation, I 
find that the tendency of these particular funds to sell winners rather than losers is persistent through 
time. I also find that these funds show another related behavioral tendency, whereby they add shares 
to their losses. Like holding onto losses, this doubling of sorts is another form of gambling with 
losses. Taken altogether, these findings suggest that for the subset of funds that sell more winners 
than losers, I cannot rule out the disposition effect as a contributing factor.  
My mutual fund setting allows me to answer research questions that cannot be addressed 
when studying the behavior of retail investors. One such question is “How do investors react when 
they are under pressure to act on their investments?” Dror et al. (1999) show that, when placed under 
time pressure, participants in their experiment were even more likely to take a gamble in a high risk 
scenario, but less likely to do so in a low risk scenario. Unlike in the retail investment arena, it is 
possible to identify situations, when mutual funds are under time pressure and trade due to liquidity 
shocks. Specifically, mutual funds often experience redemptions, which they are under time pressure 
to meet by selling portfolio securities to raise cash. I find that, when they are under such pressure, 
mutual funds are more susceptible to sell disproportionately more winners than losers, as compared 
to situations when they are not under such pressure. 
My mutual fund setting also provides a unique opportunity to examine the impact that teams 
have on disposition-prone behavior. Specifically, I examine whether an individual manager’s 
portfolio decisions are more or less likely to be influenced by the disposition effect than portfolio 
decisions made by a team. One view is that the presumed objectivity of other team members might 

 
3
help break possible attachments to portfolio stocks that certain portfolio managers could develop. 
Conversely, members of a portfolio management team might gravitate toward “groupthink”, a 
tendency for group members to reach agreement without evaluating ideas in a critical manner.3 Such 
a tendency could intensify any behavioral biases that are present. Consistent with the latter view, I 
find that funds managed by teams exhibit a stronger tendency to disproportionately realize more 
gains than losses than funds managed by a single portfolio manager. 
Next, I examine the implications of the disposition effect for mutual fund portfolio 
investment style and performance. I hypothesize (style impact hypothesis) that disposition-driven 
behavior will affect the investment styles of the underlying portfolios along three dimensions: First, 
the preference of disposition-prone mutual funds for holding onto losses will lower the market risk 
exposure (Beta) of the affected portfolios over time. While the market portfolio will experience 
growing weights in past and current winner stocks, disposition-prone mutual fund portfolios will be 
tilted toward poor past performing stocks. The opposite movements in weights for the affected 
mutual fund portfolios versus the market portfolio will eventually create fund portfolios with large 
deviations from the weights of the market portfolio.  
Second, disposition-driven behavior could tilt portfolios toward a value-oriented style. From 
Prospect Theory, investors use a reference point that is a function of past prices at which trades were 
executed to establish a stock position. A portfolio stock that currently trades at a price above the 
reference point is coded as a gain, whereas a stock that trades at a price below the reference point is 
coded as a loss. While the reference point is a historical, backward-looking measure of value, the 
current stock price is a forward looking measure of value. Since they are inclined to hold onto stocks 
                                                 
3 Janis (1972, p. 9) was the first to define groupthink as “A mode of thinking that people engage in when they are deeply involved 
in a cohesive in-group, when the members' strivings for unanimity override their motivation to realistically appraise alternative 
courses of action.” 

 
4
trading at prices below the reference point, disposition-prone mutual funds will thus appear to be 
following active value-based investment strategies. 
Finally, selling winners and holding onto losers will produce portfolios dominated by stocks 
that have experienced negative returns in the past, which, as shown by Jegadeesh and Titman (1993), 
will continue to underperform in the short term. Thus, disposition-prone funds will hold portfolios 
weighted heavily by negative momentum stocks, creating the appearance of an active pursuit of 
short-term contrarian style. 
In my analysis of the “style impact” hypothesis I stratify the mutual fund portfolios by their 
inclination to sell more winners than losers and examine their subsequent style characteristics. 
Consistent with the “style impact” hypothesis, mutual funds with the strongest tendency to sell 
winners rather than losers exhibit: (1) lower market betas; (2) higher loadings on the book-to-market 
equity common risk factor, which is consistent with a value-oriented investment style; and (3) lower 
(negative) loadings on the momentum factor, which is consistent with a short-term contrarian 
investment style.  
I hypothesize that the disposition effect could also have a negative effect on fund 
performance (performance impact hypothesis). Since a disposition-related sale is triggered by the 
stock price being above the reference point and not by fundamental information, disposition-prone 
fund managers could be acting as uninformed investors who sustain losses to informed parties.4 
Substantiating the real-world implications of the performance impact hypothesis, some fund 
companies are actively trying to reduce the influence of behavioral biases on their fund managers. To 
this end, fund companies can now hire external consultants to run diagnostics on the trades of 
                                                 
4 Grossman and Stiglitz (1980) show that in equilibrium, uninformed investors sustain losses to informed investors who are 
compensated for the cost of becoming informed. However, this view does not take into account the possibility that investors 
subject to behavioral biases could impact asset prices in certain ways. 

 
5
portfolio managers that are intended to detect behavioral biases and to recommend ways for reducing 
the impact of such biases on fund performance.5 
The analysis does not find support for the performance impact hypothesis. However, these 
results should be interpreted with a caveat: the power of tests to detect disposition-driven behavior is 
limited by the quarterly frequency of trading extrapolated from quarterly holdings. I believe that 
further research is warranted to assess the impact of behavioral biases on performance, perhaps when 
higher trading frequency data becomes available. 
My study is related to O’Connell and Teo (2009) who show that institutional investors are 
not subject to the disposition effect in their currency trades. Similarly, I show that mutual fund equity 
trades are, on average, not subject to the disposition effect. My findings are also consistent with 
Hudart and Narayanan (2002) and Sialm and Stark (2010), both of which show that, consistent with 
optimal tax strategies, mutual funds prefer realizing capital losses to gains. Furthermore, my finding 
of a disposition effect among a subset of mutual funds is consistent with Jin and Scherbina’s (2010) 
finding of a reluctance to realize losses also among a subset of their sample—portfolio managers that 
are eventually replaced. It is also consistent with Wermers’ (2003) finding of a reluctance to sell 
losers among a subset of his sample—funds with poor past performance. 
Beyond this main contribution, my paper reports three novel findings. First, I show that 
trading under pressure makes mutual funds more susceptible to the disposition effect. This introduces 
a new dimension in the behavioral finance literature that, to the best of my knowledge, has not been 
investigated before. Second, I document that rather than reducing the influence of behavioral biases, 
a team approach to organizational fund structure has the opposite effect of intensifying such biases. 
This finding represents a contribution to a recent strand of literature with mixed findings on the 
superiority of team-manager versus single-manager fund structures (see Massa et al. (2010); Han et 
                                                 
5 See Appell 2006 and Knight (2008). 

 
6
al. (2008); Chen et al. (2004); Qiu (2003); and Prather and Middleton (2002)). Finally, this study 
contributes to the body of knowledge on the determinants of mutual fund investment styles and their 
interaction with mutual fund performance (see Cooper et al. (2005), Wermers (2010)). Previous 
studies addressing these issues have analyzed strategic aspects related to style choices or style 
changes made by mutual funds. My study suggests that behavioral biases such as the disposition 
effect could cause unintentional investment style changes in a predictable direction. 
 
The rest of the paper is organized in six sections. Section II describes data and sample 
characteristics. Section III tests for the presence of the disposition effect. Alternative explanations are 
explored in Section IV. Section V examines the relation between disposition-driven behavior and 
fund characteristics. The relation of the disposition effect to fund style and performance 
characteristics is examined in Section VI. Section VII concludes.  
 
II. Data 
A. Data Sources and Sample Construction 
Portfolio holdings data for U.S. equity mutual funds from January 1980 to December 2009 
came from Thomson/CDA. For a given date and fund, the database provides the name and identifier 
of each security and number of shares held. These data were supplemented with prices, volume, and 
other individual stock information from the CRSP Monthly and Daily Stock Data Series. 
All fund characteristics other than portfolio holdings, such as returns, fees, and investment 
objectives came from the CRSP Mutual Fund (CRSP MF) Database. Since CRSP MF reports data by 
share class, I aggregate information at the portfolio level by taking a value-weighted average for each 
attribute across all share classes of the same portfolio. 
I merge Thomson/CDA with the CRSP MF using WRDS’ MFLINKS, a dataset which links 
Thomson/CDA fund identifiers with those of the CRSP MF Database. Both Thomson and CRSP 

 
7
fund datasets are free of survivorship bias.6 Given that CRSP MF Database has several investment 
objective classification schemes from different data providers that cover different time periods, I 
unify all the different investment objective classifications to come up with a single one.  
To be included in the sample, a fund must: (1) be in the MFLINKS linked set; (2) have an 
investment objective indicating that the fund invests primarily in equity securities; and (3) have an 
average weight in common stocks of more than fifty percent. The resulting set of funds had their 
names manually checked, and any remaining balanced, flexible, retirement, international, tax-
exempt, or fixed-income funds were excluded. The final sample includes 3,268 domestic equity 
funds in existence during the1980-2009 period. 
I estimate quarterly fund trades for each fund by tracking changes in holdings over 
consecutive quarters. Mutual funds were required by the Securities and Exchange Commission to 
report their portfolio holdings semiannually prior to June 2005 and quarterly thereafter.7 Although 
mutual funds were required to report their holdings only semiannually before June 2005, the majority 
reported holdings to Thomson’s CDA/Spectrum on a quarterly basis. 
 
B. Sample Characteristics 
Table 1 presents summary characteristics for the 3,268 sample funds over the 1980-2009 
period. Panel A reports characteristics for each year of the sample period. The sample starts with 214 
funds in 1980 and ends with 1,976 funds in 2009, reflecting a dramatic increase in the popularity of 
                                                 
6 Since MFLINKS provides links until 2008, the linking table was extended to 2009 using a procedure that updated existing links 
beyond 2008 and added new links obtained from an algorithm that compares the Thomson/CDA holdings with the more recently 
introduced mutual fund holdings from the CRSP MF Database. 
7 Each mutual fund is currently required to report its holdings every quarter: A mutual fund has to file a N-CSR and N-CSRS 
form at the end of the second and fourth quarter and two N-Q forms at the end of the first and third quarter (see 
http://www.sec.gov/info/edgar/certinvco.htm). 

 
8
mutual funds among investors. In terms of assets, my sample reached its peak in 2007 with 3.8 
trillion dollars under management, steadily declining thereafter as a result of the recession in the US. 
Panel B breaks down the sample funds into active and index funds. It also breaks down all 
active funds into various investment objectives. Some index funds were identified using a 
categorization variable from the CRSP MF Database introduced in the later years and others were 
identified by inspecting fund names. My sample includes 262 index funds, which represent roughly 
eight percent of my sample funds. Among actively managed funds, growth funds represent the most 
numerous group with roughly 32 percent of the active fund subgroup. 
 
III. Disposition Effect and the Decisions of Mutual Funds 
A. Methodology 
A.1. Detection of Disposition-Driven Behavior 
As a first step, to assess the extent to which funds are affected by the disposition effect, I 
calculate, for each fund and quarter, the difference between the proportion of realized capital gains 
and the proportion of realized capital losses in the portfolio. I refer to this measure as the “disposition 
spread”. A fund that is prone to the disposition effect will disproportionately realize more gains than 
losses, and will thus have a positive disposition spread. 
As in Odean (1998), I compute the proportion of realized capital gains, PGR, and the 
proportion of realized capital losses, PLR, for each fund and each quarter in which at least one stock 
sale took place, respectively, as follows: 
(1) 
 
 
i
t
UNRG
i
t
RG
i
t
RG
i
t
PGR
+
=
, 
i
t
UNRL
 
 i
t
RL
i
t
RL
i
t
PLR
+
=
  
 
where 
i
t
RG is the number of realized capital gains by fund i in quarter t, 
i
t
UNRG is the number of 
unrealized gains, 
i
t
RL is the number of realized losses, and 
i
t
UNRL is the number of unrealized 

 
9
losses. The disposition spread, DISP, is then defined as the difference of the two proportions, 
i
t
PLR
i
t
PGR
i
t
DISP
−
=
. 
Crucial to the computation of PGR and PLR statistics is the cost basis of each position. The 
cost basis serves as a proxy for the reference point, which investors compare against the current stock 
price to determine whether a stock position represents a gain or a loss. Odean (1998), Grinblatt and 
Keloharju (2001), and Huddart and Narayanan (2002) calculate the cost basis as the average of the 
prices at which the contributing stock purchases took place, weighted by the number of purchased 
shares. In contrast, Frazzini (2006) uses a first in, first out accounting method. Given the 
methodological differences from previous studies and absence of any theories supporting one 
particular method, for robustness I use four methods to compute the cost basis: (1) average price; (2) 
first in, first out (FIFO); (3) high in, first out (HIFO); and (4) low in, first out (LIFO). 
I assess robustness along two additional dimensions. First, not knowing the exact day when a 
trade takes place during the quarter, I report one set of results assuming that trades occur at the end of 
the quarter and another set of results assuming that trades occur sometime during the quarter. Second, 
I also show one set of results based on the dollar value of transactions and another set of results based 
on the number of gains and losses. 
 
A.2. Metric Used for Cross-Fund Comparisons 
The disposition spread is useful for documenting whether funds realize more gains than 
losses. However, this metric is not appropriate for cross-fund comparisons since a mechanical 
relationship exists between portfolio size and disposition spread (see Odean (1998, p. 1,785)). This is 
best illustrated with the following example. Suppose that half of the stocks in the portfolios of both 
fund A and fund B represent gains and the other half losses. Assume that fund A has 12 winner and 
12 loser stocks in its portfolio, whereas fund B has only three winner and three loser stocks. 

 
10
Furthermore, assume that both funds are equally affected by the disposition effect, both being twice 
as likely to realize any given gain as any given loss. Accordingly, both funds sell 2 winner and 1 
loser stocks. Fund A will have a PGR of 2/12, a PLR of 1/12, and a DISP of 1/12, while fund B will 
have a PGR of 2/3, a PLR of 1/3, and a DISP of 1/3. Thus, fund B’s DISP will be four times greater 
than fund A’s even though they have the same propensity for selling winners rather than losers.8  
An alternative measure gets around this problem. The measure, which I refer to as the 
disposition ratio, DISP RATIO, calculates the ratio of PGR to PLR rather than the difference of PGR 
and PLR. In the above example, the disposition ratio for both funds will equal two, thus correctly 
estimating the propensity to realize more gains than losses for both funds to be the same. Therefore, I 
use DISP RATIO rather than DISP in any cross-sectional analysis.  
 
B. Results 
B.1. Overall Results 
Table 2 reflects all the methodological variations employed to compute PGR, PLR, and DISP 
statistics. The t-statistic associated with DISP is also reported along with the fraction of funds with 
positive disposition spreads. Results based on each of the four accounting methods are reported in 
separate columns. The PGR, PLR, and DISP statistics are computed using the dollar value of 
transactions in Panel A and the number of transactions in Panel B. In Panels A.1 and B.1 trades are 
assumed to happen at the end of quarter. In Panels A.2 and B.2 trades are assumed to happen at 
prices that are averages of daily stock prices during the quarter, i.e., trades are assumed to occur 
sometime during the quarter.  
                                                 
8 As the relationship between portfolio size and DISP is non-linear, the number of stocks held is not an adequate control variable. 
Also, this relationship is so strong that it is likely to affect DISP even within subgroups of stocks formed based on the number of 
stocks held. I thank Terry Odean for pointing this out. 

 
11
The PGR, PLR, and DISP measures are first computed for each fund in each quarter. Next, 
for each fund, I calculate the time-series mean of each measure. A key statistic is the fraction of 
funds with positive average disposition spreads, calculated by weighting each fund equally or by its 
average assets under management. Regardless of the method used, the sample funds, on average, do 
not appear to realize gains more readily than losses. Thus, these results contrast the findings of a 
disposition effect among retail investors. The fraction of funds with positive disposition spreads is 
slightly higher than 50 percent only in two out of the 16 methodological scenarios — when the FIFO 
inventory method and the number of transactions are used and funds are weighted by their assets.  
The result for equity mutual funds to realize, on average, more losses than gains is consistent 
with similar findings by Hudart and Narayanan (2002) and Sialm and Stark (2010), both of which 
study equity mutual funds in the context of optimal tax strategies. In sum I observe that, on average, 
mutual funds have a stronger preference for realizing losses rather than gains. Nevertheless, I observe 
a great deal of cross-sectional heterogeneity among mutual funds with respect to their realization of 
gains and losses, as 22 to 55 percent of the sample exhibit positive disposition spreads. 
 
B.2. Results Stratified by Subperiod 
Has the behavior of mutual funds with respect to the realization of gains and losses changed 
through time? Recent advances in investment technologies could have brought about more structure 
and discipline and less reliance on behavioral heuristics. Table 3 reports subperiod results for 1980-
1989, 1990-1999, and 2000-2009. In the interest of brevity, here and in all subsequent tables the 
average price method is used to compute the cost basis and the proportions of gains and losses are 
computed using the dollar value of trades and assuming that all trades happened at the end of the 
quarter. Results are qualitatively similar if I use the other methods. Mutual funds do not show a 
tendency to realize more gains than losses in any of the subperiods. The fraction of funds with 
positive disposition spreads has significantly declined from roughly 46 percent during 1980-1989 to 

 
12
roughly 28-36 percent in the later two subperiods. This pattern is consistent with increased awareness 
of behavioral finance theories among finance practitioners. Recognize that some of the pioneering 
research documenting the disposition effect was first released in working paper format during the 
second sample subperiod (e.g., Odean (1998); Weber and Camerer (1998); Genesove and Mayer 
(2001); and Grinblatt and Keloharju (2001)). Furthermore, in 1995 the CFA Institute held its first 
conference on the application of behavioral studies to financial markets, which incorporated 
presentations by academics actively involved in behavioral research.9 Thus, consistent with finance 
practitioners first being introduced to evidence of cognitive biases during the 1990-1999 period and 
consequently reacting to such evidence, I observe that the fraction of funds with positive disposition 
spreads sharply declined by roughly more than ten percentage points from the first to the second 
subperiod, while it remained almost unchanged from the second to the third subperiod.10 
Anecdotal evidence suggests that large fund families are more likely to hire staff with Ph.D. 
degrees and are more attentive to academic research. Thus, larger fund families might have been 
introduced to behavioral finance theories sooner than smaller families. Figure 1 shows that for larger 
families the fraction of funds with positive disposition spreads experienced a sharp decline from the 
first to the second subperiod and remained unchanged thereafter. In contrast, for smaller families the 
fraction of funds with positive disposition spreads did not decline from the first to the second 
subperiod (it slightly increased instead), but it declined significantly from the second to the third 
subperiod. This evidence suggests that large fund families became aware of and incorporated lessons 
from behavioral theories in their investment process sooner than small families. 
 
 
                                                 
9 See AIMR Conference Proceedings (December 1995). The academic presentations in this conference included De Bondt 
(1995), Statman (1995), and Tversky (1995). 
10 Topics from behavioral finance have now become an integral part of the CFA curriculum. 

 
13
B.3. Results Stratified by Fund Categories 
Table 4 reports statistics for fund subgroups based on two categorizations. The first two 
columns compare index funds versus actively-managed mutual funds. Given the passive nature of 
index funds, their trades ought to reflect only the reconstitution rules of the underlying indices that 
they follow and not be affected by any behavioral heuristics. This attractive feature makes index 
funds a useful benchmark for evaluating the behavior of actively-managed funds.  
Index funds exhibit an average disposition spread that is not statistically different from zero, 
suggesting that they are equally as likely to realize gains as to realize losses. On the other hand, 
actively-managed funds exhibit a significant negative disposition spread and, relative to index funds, 
have a smaller fraction of funds with positive disposition spreads. Overall, the behavior of active 
funds is consistent with an optimal tax strategy of harvesting losses to increase the present value of 
tax savings (Constantinides (1984)). Moreover, such a strategy reduces taxable distributions to 
investors (Gibson et al. (2000)) and could help funds attract investor clienteles that are sensitive to 
taxes (see Bergstresser and Poterba (2002)). 
The remaining columns from Table 4 compare actively-managed funds across different 
investment objectives. The mean disposition spread is negative and statistically significant for each 
investment objective. Furthermore, growth funds exhibit the smallest and small cap funds exhibit the 
largest disposition spreads. 
 
B.4. Controlling for Past Stock Returns and Comparability to Previous Research 
Pertaining to stock trading by institutional investors, my findings are consistent with Huddart 
and Narayanan (2002) and Sialm and Starks (2010). Huddart and Narayanan (2002) show that, 
consistent with efficient tax strategies, mutual funds are more likely to realize capital losses than 
capital gains. Sialm and Starks (2010), using a more recent sample, document a similar finding, 
which holds for both short-term and long-term gains and losses. Pertaining to trading of other types 

 
14
of assets, my findings are consistent with O’Connell and Teo (2009) who show that global 
institutional money managers are more likely to get out of currency positions in which they have 
experienced losses and hold onto positions where they have experienced gains. 
Grinblatt and Keloharju (2001) document the presence of the disposition effect among 
Finnish institutional investors. To reconcile my results with Grinblatt and Keloharju (2001), I apply 
their methodology to my sample. I specify the relationship between the sell versus hold decision 
using a logit model. The dependent variable equals one when a mutual fund sells a stock and zero 
when it does not sell but holds the stock. As in Grinblatt and Keloharju (2001), the two key 
independent variables are a large capital loss dummy and a small capital loss dummy. Similar to 
O’Connell and Teo (2009), for each fund I define a large (small) loss as a loss that is larger (smaller) 
in magnitude than the median loss for that fund. Results are qualitatively similar if I use the 30% 
cutoff used in Grinblatt and Keloharju (2001). 
In this framework it is important to control for how investors react to past returns. The 
overall tendency for funds to realize capital losses more readily than capital gains could be because 
they actively follow momentum strategies. Past returns could also trigger other kinds of behavior 
such as contrarian investing or rebalancing. Furthermore, past returns could be related to transaction 
costs considerations. For example, a fund that has to sell for liquidity reasons might prefer to sell 
stocks that have recently experienced a price run-up rather than those that have experienced a price 
run-down and have become lower priced and less liquid (see Odean (p. 1,779, 1998)). For all these 
reasons, it is important to assess whether the preference for mutual funds to realize capital losses 
rather than capital gains persists even after controlling for how investors react to past returns. 
Controlling for past returns is important for yet another reason: Such an exercise will help 
reconcile my results with Wermers (2003) and Jin and Scherbina (2010). Unlike most of the related 
literature, both Wermers (2003) and Jin and Scherbina (2010) define winner and loser stocks in 
mutual fund portfolios based on the past 12 month returns of each stock. In contrast, my paper 

 
15
defines a winner and loser relative to a reference point that is specific to each mutual fund portfolio 
and reflects the cost of establishing the underlying position.11 Thus, to control for investor behavior 
in response to past returns and to reconcile my results with Wermers (2003) and Jin and Scherbina 
(2010), I include two additional independent variables in the logit regression that capture past 
market-adjusted stock returns compounded over the last 6 or 12 months. The two return variables are 
Positive Return, defined as [max (return, 0)], and Negative Return, defined as [min (return, 0)]. 
Results from the logit regression are reported in Table 5. Results in this and all subsequent 
tables exclude index funds from the analysis. Even after controlling for past stock returns, mutual 
funds are more likely to sell when facing capital losses than when facing capital gains. This 
reinforces previous findings from Tables 2 through 4 and suggests that the difference between my 
findings and those of Grinblatt and Keloharju (2001) cannot be attributed to methodological 
differences. The coefficients on the past return variables suggest that mutual funds are more likely to 
sell stocks that have experienced larger positive market-adjusted returns and are less likely to sell 
stocks that have experienced more negative market-adjusted returns. This specific finding of how 
mutual funds respond to past stock returns is consistent with Grinblatt and Keloharju (2001). The 
finding that mutual funds are less likely to sell stocks that have experienced more negative market-
adjusted returns is consistent with both Wermers (2003) and Jin and Scherbina (2010)12. However, 
realize that the two latter papers do not relate mutual fund selling decisions to capital gains or losses 
per se. Rather, these papers examine trading in response to past stock returns, which serve as trading 
signals for investors that follow momentum or contrarian trading strategies. Nonetheless, even after 
                                                 
11 A stock characterized as a winner based on its past 12 month returns might not necessarily be a winner in a fund portfolio if 
you consider the price paid for it. Such a stock might represent a capital loss if its purchase price is above the current price. 
12 In unreported results I further explore comparability of my findings with those of Jin and Scherbina (2010). Specifically, I 
explore what happens to disposition spreads following portfolio manager replacements. Interestingly, funds that displayed 
behavior consistent with the disposition effect before a manager’s replacement show no such behavior after the replacement. 

 
16
controlling for such considerations, mutual funds appear to prefer selling stocks from positions with 
capital losses rather than capital gains, suggesting that mutual funds are not affected by the 
disposition effect, on average. 
 
IV. Does Disposition Effect Cause the Positive Disposition Spreads of Some Funds? 
The previous section showed that a sizable fraction of the sample funds have positive average 
disposition spreads. Although the disposition effect could be a plausible explanation for these funds’ 
positive disposition spreads, random variation in the empirical distribution could also be responsible. 
In what follows, I explore this possibility.  
 
A. Persistence 
The subset consisting of 48% to 55% of the index funds with positive disposition spreads, 
documented in Table 4, is most likely due to random variation in the disposition spread, as index 
funds are passive investment vehicles. Randomness could also be responsible for the fraction of 
actively-managed funds with positive disposition spreads that I observe in Table 4. If that was the 
case, I should observe a lack of persistence in these funds’ tendency to realize more gains than losses. 
To test this, I examine whether funds preserve their disposition ratio ranks over time. I construct a 
contingency table of initial and subsequent fund ranks based on the disposition ratio. Every quarter, I 
classify funds as High or Low disposition funds if their disposition ratio is respectively above or 
below the median disposition ratio.  
Cell frequencies from the two-way classification table are reported in Table 6. A Chi-Square 
test rejects the null hypothesis that the disposition ratio ranks are independent from one quarter to the 
next. This result suggests that the tendency for some funds to disproportionally realize more gains 
than losses is persistent though time. 
 

 
17
 
B. Another Form of Gambling with Losses 
An integral part of the disposition effect is a particular form of gambling with losses, 
whereby investors hold onto losing investments. However, this is not the only way of gambling with 
losses. Another way of gambling with losses arises when investors add additional shares to their 
losses. This doubling of sorts was documented for Australian mutual funds by Brown et al. (2005). 
Most important, this second form of gambling with losses can be measured independently from the 
disposition-related tendency of holding onto losses. Thus, if random variation in the disposition 
spread gives rise to a subset of funds with positive disposition spreads, these two manifestations of 
gambling with losses should not be related to each other. I next explore this possibility. 
To capture the tendency for funds to add additional shares to their losses, I construct what I 
refer to as the doubling measure (DB), computed as the difference of the proportion of losses added, 
PLA, and proportion of gains added, PGA. More specifically, PLA is computed as the dollar value of 
shares added to stocks representing capital losses divided by the dollar value of all stock positions 
representing capital losses in the portfolio at the beginning of the quarter. Similarly, PGA is 
computed as the dollar value of shares added to stocks representing capital gains divided by the 
dollar value of all stock positions representing capital gains in the portfolio at the beginning of the 
quarter. A mutual fund that gambles with losses by adding shares to his losses more readily than to 
his gains should exhibit a positive DB.  
Table 7 reports the average DB for each of the decile portfolios formed based on disposition 
ratios. I rank all funds every quarter into deciles based on their disposition ratios. Funds with the 
highest disposition ratios are in the top decile and funds with the lowest disposition ratios are in the 
bottom decile. Results show a monotonic relation between DISP RATIO and DB. Furthermore, funds 
in the top four disposition ratio deciles exhibit positive DB, which is consistent with doubling 
strategies. The DB differential between the top and bottom deciles is statistically significant. Taken 

 
18
altogether, these findings suggest a strong relation between the tendency for some funds to realize 
gains rather than losses and their tendency to add additional shares to their losses rather than gains.  
In sum, the propensity documented for some of my sample funds to realize gains rather than 
losses is persistent through time and is accompanied by another form of gambling with losses. Such 
evidence makes the disposition effect a likely explanation why a subset of the sample funds exhibit 
positive disposition spreads. 
 
V. Selling Preference and Characteristics 
 
So far I have presented a somewhat isolated view of mutual fund preferences for realizing 
capital gains and losses whereby two categories of funds exist: The majority of funds prefer to realize 
losses more readily than gains, while a substantial minority prefers the opposite pattern of realizing 
capital gains rather than capital losses. But mutual funds operate in a constantly changing 
environment, where some conditions might give rise to certain behavioral tendencies and other 
conditions might give rise to other tendencies. In what follows, I start with a discussion of other 
factors that might influence mutual fund preferences for realizing capital gains and losses and 
proceed with a multivariate analysis. 
 
A. Tax Motivation 
The propensity for the majority of funds to realize more capital losses than gains could be 
driven by tax considerations. Tax selling works in the opposite direction with the disposition effect; 
mutual funds offset capital gains realized in the earlier part of the year to reduce the tax liability of 
their clients. A rationale for this type of trading activity is that, since mutual fund investors follow 
after-tax returns (see Bergstresser and Poterba (2002)), mutual fund managers, competing for 
investment cash flows, try to increase the after-tax returns of their clients by minimizing net realized 
capital gains, 98 percent of which has to be distributed to investors. Indeed, Gibson et al. (2000) 

 
19
show that mutual funds accelerate their sale of “losers” before the common tax-year end. Thus, if tax 
selling plays a role, I would expect funds to display a stronger tendency for realizing capital losses 
rather than gains towards the end of the calendar year.  
 
B. Dynamic Loss Aversion 
Extending Kahneman and Tversky’s (1979) framework, Barberis et al. (2001) show that loss 
aversion dynamically changes over time as a function of prior investment performance. More 
specifically, after good prior performance investors become less loss averse because prior gains 
cushion the negative effects of future losses. On the other hand, after poor prior performance they 
become more loss averse, wanting to avoid additional setbacks. O’Connell and Teo (2009) argue that 
“institutional fund managers are prone to dynamic loss aversion precisely because a large part of 
their self esteem and industry standing is tied to their portfolios’ past performance.” Under this 
framework, poor prior performance should lead to a pattern that runs contrary to the disposition 
effect. Specifically, poor prior performance should lead to a greater propensity for mutual funds to 
realize capital losses rather than gains. 
 
C. Trading Under Pressure 
My mutual fund setting presents a unique opportunity to examine research questions that 
cannot be addressed with retail investor data. Studies from cognitive psychology suggest that 
decisions made under time pressure might exacerbate behavioral biases. For example, Dror et al. 
(1999) show that, when placed under time pressure, participants in their experiment were even more 
likely to take a gamble in high risk scenarios, but less likely to do so in low risk scenarios. Another 
study by Raymond and O’Brien (2009) shows that, under pressure, experiment participants were 
more likely to recognize information predicting rewarding outcomes and to overlook information 
predicting negative outcomes. In the financial markets investors often trade under pressure because 

 
20
of liquidity shocks, which might amplify the influence of behavioral biases such as the disposition 
effect. While trading-under-pressure scenarios cannot be identified for retail investors, such scenarios 
can be easily identified for mutual funds, as they are often pressured to trade in response to 
redemption demands made by their investors. By distinguishing situations when mutual funds are 
under pressure to act on their portfolios from situations when they are not under such pressure, I thus 
examine whether time pressure exacerbates behavioral biases such as the disposition effect. 
 
D. Team Effects 
My mutual fund setting makes it possible to distinguish decisions that were made as part of a 
team from those made by a single individual. One view is that the presumed objectivity of other team 
members might help break possible attachments to portfolio stocks that portfolio managers could 
develop. Conversely, members of a portfolio management team might gravitate toward a decision 
making pattern known as “groupthink”. Janis (1972, p. 9) was the first to define groupthink as “A 
mode of thinking that people engage in when they are deeply involved in a cohesive in-group, when 
the members' strivings for unanimity override their motivation to realistically appraise alternative 
courses of action.” More recently Benabou (2009) argues that groupthink might have been a 
contributing factor to corporate fiascos such as Enron, WorldCom, and the mortgage-related financial 
crisis. Groupthink in the investment management process has long been acknowledged (see Forrestal 
(1988); Zeikel (1988); Fabozzi (1997, p. 41); and Benabou (2009)).13 In light of this discussion as 
                                                 
13 As an example of how fund families try to avoid groupthink, Emspak (2007) discusses the approach taken by Eileen 
Rominger, Chief Investment Officer of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, to structure her team interaction:  
“Beyond that, Rominger sets up a meeting with her team, with one person serving as the designated contrarian. Before the 
meeting she asks other team members to submit anonymous evaluations to both her and the person who generated the idea. 
The designated contrarian's job is to poke holes in the new idea, drawing on what the other team members have submitted. The 
structure guards against groupthink. It also helps separate the really good ideas from the merely least objectionable. Left alone, 
groups tend to gravitate to ideas that nobody dislikes rather than those that anyone thinks are really good, Rominger says.” 

 
21
applied to my mutual fund setting, I examine whether team-based decision making reduces the 
influence of behavioral biases. 
 
E. Logit Regression Methodology 
I employ a logit regression to model the funds’ differential selling propensities in response to 
gains vs. losses. The dependent variable, Positive DISP, is an indicator variable that equals one for 
fund-quarter observations with positive disposition spreads (when funds sell more winners than 
losers) and zero otherwise. Each fund in a given quarter represents a distinct unit of observation. 
To examine whether tax loss selling affects selling preferences, I include, Last Quarter, a 
dummy variable that equals one for observations in the last calendar quarter and zero otherwise, as 
one of the independent variables. I introduce a fund performance variable, Past Fund Performance, 
to detect behavior possibly affected by dynamic loss aversion. This variable is measured as the past 
12-month risk-adjusted fund performance from the Carhart (1997) model. 
To examine whether outflow-induced pressure and team-based fund structure affect selling 
preferences, I include two key independent variables: Outflow, an indicator variable that equals one if 
a fund experienced net outflows in a given quarter and Team, an indicator variable that equals one if 
a fund is managed by a team of portfolio managers. 
Presumably funds holding a smaller number of stocks or portfolios that are highly 
concentrated on a few stocks are more likely to create an attachment to their portfolio losers, leading 
to a stronger tendency to sell winners rather than losers. To examine this possibility, as additional 
independent variables, I include Number of Stocks, defined as the natural log of the number of stocks 
held in the fund portfolio, and Herfindahl Index, defined as the sum of the squared portfolio weights 
in each stock, multiplied by 100.  
 Another factor I control for is related to transaction cost considerations. Consider a fund 
which holds some stocks that experienced a price run-down over a period of time. These stocks have 

 
22
become lower-priced and less liquid. If the fund is forced to sell to meet redemptions caused by fund 
outflows, the fund will be more likely to sell portfolio winners, which have become more liquid and 
have lower transaction costs (see Odean (p. 1,779, 1998)). To control for this possible effect, I 
include two additional control variables: Amihud Ratio, defined as the ratio of absolute return to 
dollar volume, averaged (value-weighted) across all stocks sold in a mutual fund portfolio in a given 
quarter and Past Stock Performance, defined as the value-weighted average of past 12-month returns 
of all the stocks sold in a mutual fund portfolio in a given quarter.  
Additional control variables include Fund Assets, Family Assets, Portfolio Turnover, Expense 
Ratio, Load. Fund Assets and Family Assets represent, respectively, the log of the total net assets of 
the fund and of the family to which the fund belongs. Portfolio Turnover is the fund’s turnover rate 
in percentage terms. Expense Ratio is the fund’s expense ratio. Load equals one if the fund charges a 
load and zero if it does not. All independent variables are lagged by one quarter. Regressions are run 
with and without investment objective dummies. The marginal probabilities for the independent 
variables are reported along with the associated t-statistics in parentheses. 
 
F. Results 
Table 8 presents results. The negative coefficient on Last Quarter dummy is consistent with 
tax selling taking place in the last quarter of the year. That is, mutual funds are even more likely to 
realize capital losses than capital gains in the last quarter. Such behavior is consistent with a desire to 
reduce taxable distributions in an effort to make the fund more attractive to potential investors. 
The lack of significance for the coefficient on Past Fund Performance does not support the 
prediction of the dynamic loss aversion theory of Barberis et al. (2001). The lack of significance 
persisted even when I tried other measures of performance not reported here. O’Connell and Teo 
(2009) show that, when trading currencies, mutual funds appear keener to respond to past 
performance at the end of calendar year. Along the same vein, I interact Past Fund Performance with 

 
23
Last Quarter to examine whether gain vs. loss realization preferences become more responsive to 
past performance towards the end of the calendar year. Again, the insignificant coefficient on the 
interaction term does not follow predictions from dynamic loss aversion. This result should be 
interpreted with two caveats: (1) The inconsistency of my results with those of O’Connell and Teo 
(2009) could be because our studies examine trades in different types of securities—currencies in 
their paper and equities in mine. (2) Unlike the high frequency of O’Connell and Teo’s (2009) data, 
the quarterly frequency of my data could limit the power of my tests. 
Consistent with time pressure intensifying the influence of the disposition effect, I find a 
positive and significant relation between Positive DISP, the tendency to sell winners rather than 
losers, and Outflow. Note that outflows introduce liquidity shocks that could trigger transaction cost 
considerations as proposed by Odean (1998). Nonetheless, I controlled for such effects by including 
Amihud Ratio and Past Stock Performance as additional independent variables. Taken together, this 
evidence suggests that a when fund is forced to sell securities to meet redemptions, the probability 
that he is likely to exhibit disposition-driven behavior increases. Although Outflow is positively 
related to Positive Disp, recognize that investor outflows do not completely explain the propensity 
for some funds to realize more gains than losses as shown by the fact that the magnitude of the 
Pseudo R2 and the coefficient on Outflow are not that large.  
The relation between Team and Positive DISP is positive and significant. This finding 
suggests that a team approach to portfolio management is not effective in reducing the influence of 
behavioral biases. This finding is consistent with the broader concern that team-based decision 
making processes in investment management are susceptible to groupthink, which can lead to 
suboptimal investment decisions, as argued in Forrestal (1988), Zeikel (1988), and Fabozzi (1997, p. 
41). In this context, future research that looks at how intra-team interactions are structured across 

 
24
different mutual fund families and their impact on the quality of investment decisions is warranted, 
perhaps when better data becomes available.14 
The coefficients on Number of Stocks and Herfindahl Index suggest that funds holding a 
small number of stocks or holding highly concentrated portfolios show a stronger tendency for 
realizing gains rather than losses. This is consistent with the idea that such funds are perhaps more 
likely to create an attachment to portfolio “loser” stocks. However, this finding could also be 
consistent with an alternative explanation: Funds holding a small number of stocks face higher 
reputational costs when selling losers, which makes it rational for them to avoid selling losers. Such 
an explanation is in line with Jin and Scherbina’s (2010) conjecture that the reluctance of managers 
“to sell losers may be caused by the fear that they will suffer reputational costs for having made an 
investment mistake. As a result, they choose not to sell their underperforming stocks, thus not 
admitting their mistakes publicly (p. 29).” To differentiate between the behavioral and reputational 
explanations, I explored the interaction between fund past performance and Number of Stocks and 
Herfindahl Index. Brown, Harlow, and Starks (1996) and Brown, Goetzmann, and Park (2001) show 
that reputational concerns are more pronounced for funds with poor past performance who respond 
by altering portfolio risk. If reputational concerns are behind the tendency for funds that hold a small 
number of stocks or hold highly concentrated portfolios to sell more winners rather than losers, then 
such funds should show an even stronger tendency to sell winners than losers when they face poor 
past performance. Results not reported here show the interaction effects to be insignificant and 
therefore inconsistent with a reputational effect. 
Further results show that the coefficient on Amihud Ratio is significant for only one 
specification. The coefficient on Past Stock Performance is positive and significant for both 
                                                 
14 Limited evidence suggests that there is some variation in the intra-team interactions across mutual fund families. Specifically, 
some fund families structure their portfolio management teams so that the investment decisions are made by committee. Other 
mutual fund companies such as American Funds use an approach that combines teamwork with individual accountability.   

 
25
regressions models, suggesting that mutual funds prefer to sell stocks that have experienced a price 
run-up in the near past. This result is consistent with evidence from Table 5. Also, my finding of a 
negative relation between Portfolio Turnover and Positive DISP is consistent with Seru et al. (2010) 
finding that investors learn to avoid the disposition effect as they gain experience through trading.  
 
VI. Impact on Style and Performance 
A. Methodology 
To examine the relation between disposition-driven behavior and portfolio style and 
performance, I employ the following procedure. At the beginning of each quarter t, I rank funds into 
deciles based on their DISP RATIO in quarter t-1. Funds with the highest DISP RATIO are placed in 
the top decile and funds with the lowest DISP RATIO are placed in the bottom decile. Funds in each 
decile are placed into portfolios and held for the three months, with the same ranking procedure and 
portfolio updating repeated every quarter. A time-series of monthly returns (weighted by fund assets 
at the beginning of the quarter) is created for each of the decile portfolios and their style 
characteristics and performance are evaluated using the Fama and French (1993) and the Carhart 
(1997) models specified below,  
(2) 
 
t
t
HML
t
SMB
t
MKT
t
HML
SMB
RMRF
a
R
ε
β
β
β
+
+
+
+
=
 
(3)  
 
t
t
UMD
t
HML
t
SMB
t
MKT
t
UMD
HML
SMB
RMRF
a
R
ε
β
β
β
β
+
+
+
+
+
=
,   
where 
tR is the return in month t in excess of the risk-free rate. The common factor variables 
RMRFt, SMBt, HMLt, and UMDt are the month-t return differentials between the market portfolio and 
risk-free rate, small cap and large cap stocks, high and low book-to-market stocks, and positive and 
negative return-momentum stocks, respectively.  
 
 

 
26
B. Results 
Table 9 reports statistics for decile portfolios created from ranking funds on DISP RATIO. 
Statistics include alphas and factor loadings from the performance regressions. The portfolios show a 
wide variation in their sensitivities to market, book-to-market equity, and momentum factors and a 
lower variation in their sensitivities to the size factor. Consistent with the style-impact hypothesis, 
there is a monotonic relation between the DISP RATIO ranks and market, book-to-market equity, and 
momentum factors in the hypothesized direction. More specifically, funds in the top decile have 
significantly lower loadings on the market factor, higher loadings on the book-to-market equity 
factor, and lower loadings on the momentum factor. In sum, funds in the top decile have a lower-
than-average market risk exposure and display the characteristics of a value-oriented and short-term 
contrarian investment style.  
The lack of a clear monotonic pattern in the alphas of decile portfolios together with the 
insignificant differential between the top and bottom deciles does not support the performance impact 
hypothesis.15 This result is consistent with Locke and Mann’s (2005) finding of no measurable costs 
associated with professional futures floor traders’ aversion to realizing losses. However, this 
similarity of results should be interpreted with caution for two reasons: (1) Our studies examine 
trades in different types of securities—futures in their paper and equities in mine. (2) Their study 
uses high frequency data while mine employs data of quarterly frequency. Thus, it is possible that the 
quarterly frequency of the trades inferred from quarterly fund holdings presents a limitation for the 
power of my tests. Assessing the impact of behavioral biases on performance is worthy of future 
research, perhaps when equity trading data of a higher frequency becomes available. 
 
                                                 
15 This result is further confirmed by unreported multivariate tests whereby quarterly fund alphas are regressed on the 
disposition ratio and other fund and family characteristics. 

 
27
VII. Conclusion 
As important players in the financial markets, mutual funds are supposed to be shrewd 
professional investors whose endless search for mispriced securities and market anomalies 
presumably makes the financial markets more efficient. Although, on average, mutual funds seem to 
realize losses more readily than gains, surprisingly, a sizable fraction of them are not exempt from 
the disposition effect, a behavioral effect that has been widely documented for individual investors. 
The tendency of this particular subset of funds to sell winners rather than losers is persistent through 
time. Interestingly, the affected funds do not only hold onto losses, but they also systematically add 
to their losses in what appears to be another form of gambling with losses. 
My finding of a greater inclination toward the disposition effect for funds that are under time 
pressure to act on their portfolios due to investor redemptions has important implications. As 
economy-wide shocks cause capital outflows that are correlated across funds, systematic trading 
patterns among mutual funds could arise with implications for assets prices.  
The documented stronger presence of the disposition effect in the trades of mutual funds that 
are run by teams of portfolio managers as opposed to those run by a single portfolio manager raises 
questions about the efficacy of the team approach to portfolio management. This finding also calls 
for more research to shed light on the approaches to team management employed by different fund 
complexes and their impact on portfolio decisions. 
Finally, I document that disposition-driven behavior affects the investment styles of mutual 
funds, causing the affected portfolios to have lower market betas and characteristics of value-oriented 
and short-term contrarian styles. Such impacts on mutual fund investment styles, although 
unintentional, could hurt investors by altering their asset allocations.  
 

 
28
REFERENCES 
Appell, D. “Managers' Behavioral Biases Get Once-Over from Software; Analytic System Spots 
Potential Problems without Value Judgments.” Pensions & Investments, 34 (2006), 21-21. 
Bénabou, R. “Groupthink: Collective Delusions in Organizations and Markets.” Working Paper, 
Princeton University (2009). 
Bergstresser, D., and J. Poterba. “Do After-Tax Returns Affect Mutual Fund Flows?” Journal of 
Financial Economics, 63 (2002), 381-414. 
Brown, S. J.; D. R. Gallagher; O. W. Steenbeek; and P.L. Swan. “Double or Nothing: Patterns of 
Equity Fund Holdings and Transactions.” Working Paper, New York University (2005). 
Carhart, M.M. “On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance.” Journal of Finance, 52 (1997), 57-
 
82. 
Case, K., and R. Shiller. “The Behavior of Home Buyers in Boom and Post Boom Markets.” New 
England Economic Review, November/December (1988), 29-46. 
Chen, J.; H. Hong; M. Huang; and J. D. Kubik. “Does Fund Size Erode Mutual Fund Performance? 
The Role of Liquidity and Organization.”American Economic Review 94 (2004), 1276–1302. 
Constantinides, G. “Optimal Stock Trading with Personal Taxes.” Journal of Financial Economics
 
13 (1984), 65-89. 
Cooper, M.; H. Gulen; and R. Rau. “Changing Names with Style: Mutual Fund Name Changes and
 
their Effects on Fund Flows.” Journal of Finance, 60 (2005), 2825-2858. 
Coval, J., and T. Shumway, “Do Behavioral Biases Affect Prices?” Journal of Finance, 60 (2005), 1-
 
34. 
De Bondt, W. “Investor Psychology and the Dynamics of Security Prices.” AIMR Conference
 
Proceedings, Behavioral Finance and Decision Theory in Investment Management, December
 
(1995), 7-13. 

 
29
 Dror, I.; J. Busemeyer; and B. Basola. “Decision Making under Time Pressure: An Independent Test
 
of Sequential Sampling Models.” Memory & Cognition, 27 (1999), 713-725. 
Emspak, J. “Investment Trends Culture Shows in Managers' Methods Lone Wolf or Team? Firms' 
 
approaches Differ, but Goals Are the Same: Keep Good Ideas Handy.” Investor’s Business Daily,
 
(March 8, 2007). 
Fabozzi, F. “Pension Fund Investment Management.” New Hope, PA: Frank J. Fabozzi Associates
 
(1997). 
Fama, E., and K. French. “Common Risk Factors in the Returns on Stocks and Bonds.” Journal of 
 
Financial Economics 33 (1993), 3-56. 
Forrestal, D. J. III. “Control of the Investment Management Process within the Large Organization.”
 
ICFA Continuing Education Series, 4 (1988), 29-35. 
Frazzini, A. “The Disposition Effect and Under-Reaction to News.” Journal of Finance, 61 (2006),
 
2017-2046. 
Genesove, D., and C. Mayer. “Loss Aversion And Seller Behavior: Evidence From The Housing 
 
Market.” Quarterly Journal of Economics, 116 (2001), 1233-1260. 
Gibson, S.; A. Safieddine; and S. Titman. “Tax-Motivated Trading and Price Pressure: An Analysis 
 
of Mutual Fund Holdings.” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 35 (2000), 369-86. 
Grinblatt, M., and M. Keloharju. “What Makes Investors Trade?” Journal of Finance, 56 (2001),  
 
589 -616. 
Grossman, S., and J. Stiglitz. “On the Impossibility of Informationally Efficient Markets.” American
 
Economic Review, 70 (1980), 393–408.  
Han, Y.; T. Noe; and M. Rebello. “Horses for Courses: Fund Managers and Organizational 
 
Structures.” Working Paper, Tulane University (2008). 
Huddart, S., and V. Narayanan. “An Empirical Examination of Tax Factors and Mutual Funds'
 
Stock Sales Decisions.” Review of Accounting Studies, 7 (2002), 319-341. 

 
30
Janis, I. L. “Victims of Groupthink.” Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin Company (1972). 
Jin, L., and A. Scherbina. “Inheriting Losers.” Working Paper, Harvard University (2010). 
Jegadeesh, N., and S. Titman. “Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers: Implications for 
 
Stock Market Efficiency.” Journal of Finance, 48 (1993), 65–91. 
Kahneman, D., and A. Tversky. “Prospect Theory: An Analysis of Decision under Risk.”
 
Econometrica, 47 (1979), 263–291. 
Knight, R. “Software Developer Fosters a Softer Science.” Financial Times (August 19, 2008). 
Locke, P., and S. Mann, “Professional Trader Discipline and Trade Disposition.” Journal of
 
Financial Economics, 76 (2005), 401-444. 
Massa, M.; J. Reuter; and E. Zitzewitz. 2010, When Should Firms Share Credit with Employees? 
Evidence from Anonymously Managed Mutual Funds, Journal of Financial Economics, forthcoming
 
(2010). 
O'Connell, P., and M. Teo. “Institutional Investors, Past Performance, and Dynamic Loss
 
Aversion.” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 44 (2009), 155-188. 
Odean, T. “Are Investors Reluctant to Realize their Losses?” Journal of Finance, 53 (1998), 1775-
 
1798. 
Prather, L., and K. Middleton. “Are N + 1 Heads Better than One? The Case of Mutual Fund
 
Managers.” Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization, 47 (2002), 103–120. 
Raymond, J.E., and J. L. O’Brien. “Selective Visual Attention and Motivation: The Consequences of 
Value Learning in an Attentional Blink Task.” Psychological Science, 20 (2009), 981-988. 
Qiu, J. “Termination Risk, Multiple Managers and Mutual Fund Tournaments.” European Finance
 
Review, 7 (2003), 161–190 
Seru, A.; T. Shumway; and N. Stoffman. “Learning by Trading.” Review of Financial Studies, 23
 
(2010), 705-739.  

 
31
Shapira, Z., and I. Venezia. “Patterns of Behavior of Professionally Managed and Independent
 
Investors.” Journal of Banking and Finance, 25 (2001), 1573-1587. 
Shefrin, H., and M. Statman. “The Disposition to Sell Winners Too Early and Ride Losers Too Long:
 
Theory and Evidence.” Journal of Finance, 40 (1985), 777–790. 
Sialm, C and L. Starks. “Mutual Fund Tax Clienteles.” Working Paper, University of Texas (2010). 
Statman, M. “Behavioral Finance versus Standard Finance.” AIMR Conference Proceedings, 
Behavioral Finance and Decision Theory in Investment Management, December (1995), 14-22. 
Tversky, A. “The Psychology of Decision Making.” AIMR Conference Proceedings, Behavioral 
 
Finance and Decision Theory in Investment Management, December (1995), 2-6. 
Weber, M., and C. Camerer. “The Disposition Effect in Securities Trading: An Experimental
 
Analysis.” Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization, 33 (1998), 167–184. 
Wermers, R. “Is Money Really “Smart”? New Evidence on the Relation Between Mutual 
 
Fund Flows, Manager Behavior, and Performance Persistence.” Working Paper, University of
 
Maryland (2003).  
Wermers, R. “A Matter of Style: The Causes and Consequences of Style Drift in Institutional
 
Portfolios.” Working Paper, University of Maryland (2010).  
Zeikel, A. “Managing the Team.” ICFA Continuing Education Series, 4 (1988), 16-20. 

 
32
TABLE 1 
Sample Characteristics 
 
Panel A. Fund Characteristics 
Year 
Number 
Total 
Assets 
(millions) 
Average 
Assets 
(millions) 
Portfolio 
Turnover 
(%/year) 
Expense 
Ratio 
(%/year) 
Stock 
Positions 
1980 
214 
37,930 
183 
48.06% 
0.94% 
56 
1981 
228 
37,802 
178 
56.43% 
0.80% 
59 
1982 
213 
30,416 
172 
65.88% 
0.78% 
57 
1983 
234 
50,599 
252 
58.25% 
0.82% 
68 
1984 
256 
53,883 
247 
49.80% 
0.83% 
69 
1985 
268 
68,518 
292 
62.20% 
0.91% 
73 
1986 
289 
94,648 
376 
60.17% 
0.99% 
78 
1987 
310 
126,767 
453 
68.56% 
1.00% 
82 
1988 
345 
121,538 
388 
69.77% 
1.00% 
85 
1989 
358 
128,281 
417 
57.98% 
1.10% 
90 
1990 
411 
143,824 
406 
66.75% 
1.23% 
89 
1991 
474 
224,962 
478 
81.69% 
1.16% 
92 
1992 
550 
291,330 
541 
68.55% 
1.07% 
98 
1993 
632 
408,461 
659 
71.05% 
1.28% 
108 
1994 
868 
520,201 
608 
74.48% 
1.27% 
118 
1995 
1029 
715,249 
705 
79.28% 
1.34% 
123 
1996 
1101 
991,091 
910 
87.88% 
1.39% 
124 
1997 
1311 
1,384,588 
1,066 
90.62% 
1.39% 
124 
1998 
1459 
1,823,873 
1,251 
88.32% 
1.38% 
123 
1999 
1612 
2,236,138 
1,392 
89.77% 
1.41% 
127 
2000 
1715 
2,603,722 
1,522 
101.60% 
1.39% 
144 
2001 
1836 
2,158,787 
1,177 
113.44% 
1.43% 
150 
2002 
2006 
2,000,268 
998 
114.40% 
1.50% 
150 
2003 
2056 
2,151,301 
1,047 
105.28% 
1.53% 
152 
2004 
2085 
2,689,708 
1,291 
93.12% 
1.53% 
158 
2005 
2111 
3,007,649
1,425
87.98%
1.48% 
158
2006 
2026 
3,367,563 
1,661 
86.39% 
1.46% 
161 
2007 
2047 
3,816,632 
1,879 
83.39% 
1.44% 
161 
2008 
2029 
3,038,582 
1,497 
86.91% 
1.38% 
169 
2009 
1976 
2,386,211 
1,209 
103.10% 
1.39% 
174 
 
Panel B. Types of Funds 
 
Index vs. Active 
Classification 
Investment Objective Classification for Active Funds 
 
Index 
Active 
Growth 
Growth & 
Income 
Small 
Cap 
Mid 
Cap 
Aggressive 
Growth 
Income 
Missing 
Objective 
Number 
262 
3,006 
1,059 
763 
681 
535 
97 
82 
51 
Frequency (%) 
8.02 
91.98 
32.41 
23.35 
20.84 
16.37 
2.97 
2.51 
1.56 
 
This table reports summary characteristics for my 3,268 U.S. equity sample funds during the 1980-2009 period. 
Panel A reports sample characteristics for each year of the sample period. Panel B reports information on the 
breakdown of the sample into various categories based on fund investment objectives. 

 
33
TABLE 2 
Proportion of Realized Gains and Losses 
 
Panel A. Dollar Value of Transactions 
Panel A.1. End of Quarter Prices 
Average Price
FIFO
HIFO 
 
LIFO
PGR 
 
0.335
0.344
0.320 
 
0.329
PLR 
 
0.384
0.391
0.402 
 
0.381
DISP 
 
-0.049
-0.048
-0.082 
 
-0.052
t-statistic 
 
(-18.86)
(-18.71)
(-31.07) 
 
(-19.23)
% funds>0 (Equal-Weighted)  
 
35.90%
36.15%
26.35% 
 
35.38%
% funds>0 (Asset-Weighted) 
 
33.83%
36.02%
22.00% 
 
28.77%
Panel A.2. Average Quarter Prices 
PGR 
 
0.331
0.345
0.314 
 
0.319
PLR 
 
0.382
0.388
0.401 
 
0.382
DISP 
 
-0.051
-0.042
-0.087 
 
-0.064
t-statistic 
 
(-19.75)
(-16.84)
(-32.70) 
 
(-23.66)
% funds>0 (Equal-Weighted)  
 
34.28%
36.18%
23.48% 
 
30.36%
% funds>0 (Asset-Weighted) 
 
32.83%
36.11%
18.25% 
 
27.24%
 
Panel B. Number of Transactions 
Panel B.1. End of Quarter Prices 
 
 
PGR 
 
0.413
0.414
0.399 
 
0.413
PLR 
 
0.428
0.428
0.446 
 
0.430
DISP 
 
-0.015
-0.015
-0.047 
 
-0.016
t-statistic 
 
(-7.56)
(-7.60)
(-24.13) 
 
(-8.03)
% funds>0 (Equal-Weighted)  
 
44.69%
45.09%
28.04% 
 
43.07%
% funds>0 (Asset-Weighted) 
 
49.59%
53.52%
22.22% 
 
43.69%
Panel B.2. Average Quarter Prices 
PGR 
 
0.418
0.420
0.404 
 
0.414
PLR 
 
0.419
0.418
0.441 
 
0.426
DISP 
 
-0.001
0.002
-0.037 
 
-0.012
t-statistic 
 
(-0.44)
(1.05)
(-17.54) 
 
(-5.85)
% funds>0 (Equal-Weighted)  
 
47.90%
50.29%
31.28% 
 
42.42%
% funds>0 (Asset-Weighted) 
 
49.78%
54.95%
22.95% 
 
43.38%
 
This table reports the proportion of realized gains, PGR, proportion of realized losses, PLR, and the 
difference between the proportion of realized gains and losses, DISP. Each statistic is computed every 
quarter for each fund and its time-series mean is computed for each fund. The last two rows of each panel 
present the fraction of funds with a positive average disposition spread, where each fund is weighted 
equally or by its average assets. The PGR, PLR, and DISP statistics are computed using the dollar value 
of transactions in Panel A and the number of transactions in Panel B. In Panels A.1 and B.1 trades are 
assumed to happen at stock prices recorded at the end of quarter, i.e., trades are assumed to occur at the 
end of quarter. In Panels A.2 and B.2 trades are assumed to happen at prices that are averages of daily 
stock prices during the quarter, i.e., trades are assumed to occur sometime during the quarter. 

 
34
TABLE 3 
Proportion of Realized Gains and Losses by Subperiod 
 
 
 
Subperiods
 
 
1980-1989
1990-1999
 
2000-2009
PGR 
 
0.282
0.345
 
0.337
PLR 
 
0.302 
 
0.414 
 
0.384 
DISP 
 
-0.019 
 
-0.069 
 
-0.047 
t-statistic 
 
(-2.48) 
 
(-15.19) 
 
(-16.76) 
% funds>0 (Equal-Weighted)  
 
46.38% 
 
34.32% 
 
36.29% 
% funds>0 (Asset-Weighted) 
 
46.33% 
 
28.27% 
 
31.44% 
 
This table reports PGR, PLR, and DISP statistics computed for each of the three sample subperiods: 1980-
1989, 1990-1999, 2000-2009. Each statistic is computed every quarter for each fund and its time-series 
mean is computed for each fund. The last two rows present the fraction of funds with a positive average 
disposition spread where each fund is weighted equally or by its average assets.  
 
TABLE 4 
Proportion of Realized Gains and Losses by Type of Fund 
 
 
 
Index vs. Active 
Classification 
 
Investment Objective Classification for Active Funds 
 
 
Index 
Active 
 
Growth
Growth & 
Income 
Small 
Cap 
Mid 
Cap 
Aggressive 
Growth 
Income
PGR 
 
0.244 
0.343 
 
0.325 
0.304 
0.399 
0.361 
0.394 
0.249 
PLR 
 
0.253 
0.395 
 
0.407 
0.341 
0.422 
0.415 
0.463 
0.310 
DISP 
 
-0.008 
-0.053 
 
-0.083 
-0.037 
-0.022 
-0.054 
-0.069 
-0.061 
t-statistic 
 
(-1.09) 
(-19.22) 
 
(-16.50) 
(-7.04) 
(-3.82) 
(-8.12) 
(-4.33) 
(-3.37) 
% funds>0 (EW) 
54.58% 
34.28% 
 
25.71% 
36.18% 
44.64% 
35.64% 
29.67% 
36.84% 
% funds>0 (AW) 
48.23% 
31.65% 
 
18.84% 
35.14% 
48.99% 
42.81% 
11.19% 
45.36% 
 
This table reports PGR, PLR, and DISP statistics by type of mutual fund. In the first two columns, results 
are reported separately for index and actively-managed mutual funds. In the remaining columns, statistics 
are reported separately for actively-managed mutual funds categorized by investment objective. Each 
statistic is computed every quarter for each fund and its time-series mean is computed for each fund. The 
last two rows present the fraction of funds with a positive average disposition spread where each fund is 
weighted equally or by its average assets. 

 
35
TABLE 5 
Logit Regression on Sell versus Hold Decision 
 
 
 
Past Stock Returns Measured Over: 
Independent Variables 
 
Last 12 Months
Last 6 Months 
Extreme Loss 
 
0.111
0.101 
 
 
(9.21) 
 
(8.11) 
Moderate Loss 
 
0.047 
 
0.044 
 
 
(6.29) 
 
(5.75) 
Positive Return 
 
0.051 
 
0.093 
 
 
(7.22) 
 
(6.29) 
Negative Return 
 
0.125 
 
0.062 
 
 
(3.26) 
 
(1.46) 
 
This table reports results from a logit regression that models the sell versus hold decision. The dependent 
variable equals one when a mutual fund sells a stock and zero when it does not sell but decides to hold the 
stock. The two key independent variables are a large capital loss dummy and a small capital loss dummy. A 
large (small) capital loss is defined as a loss that is larger (smaller) in magnitude than the median loss for that 
fund. I include two additional independent variables in the logit regression that capture past market-adjusted 
stock returns compounded over the last 6 or 12 months. The two return variables are Positive Return, defined 
as [max (return, 0)], and Negative Return, defined as [min (return, 0)]. Standard errors are clustered by fund 
and period. The marginal probabilities for the independent variables are reported along with the associated t-
statistics in parentheses. 
 
TABLE 6 
Frequency Distributions of a 2 × 2 Classification 
Based on the Disposition Ratio in Quarters t-1 and t 
 
 
DISP RATIO Rank at t 
DISP RATIO Rank at t-1 
High DISP RATIO 
Low DISP RATIO 
High DISP RATIO 
31.37 
18.93 
Low DISP RATIO 
18.77 
30.93 
 
 
χ2=4,509  (p-value=<0.0001) 
 
Cell frequencies from a 2 × 2 classification of funds based on the rank-ordered DISP RATIOS in quarter t-1 
and t are reported. The DISP RATIO is calculated every quarter for each fund as the ratio of its PGR to its PLR. 
Every quarter, I classify funds as High or Low Disposition Funds if their DISP RATIO is respectively above or 
below the cross-sectional median for that quarter. The χ2 statistic is calculated under the null hypothesis that 
each cell should get an equal distribution of 25% of the observations.  

 
36
TABLE 7 
Doubling Measure 
 
DISP RATIO 
 
 
Portfolios 
Doubling Measure 
 
1 
0.206 
 
2 
0.162 
 
3 
0.116 
 
4 
0.054 
 
5 
0.000 
 
6 
-0.041 
 
7 
-0.067 
 
8 
-0.085 
 
9 
-0.093 
 
10 
-0.067 
 
1-10 
0.273 
 
t-stat 
(29.37) 
 
 
This table reports statistics on the Doubling Measure (DB) computed as the difference of the proportion of 
losses added, PLA, and proportion of gains added, PGA. PLA is computed as the dollar value of shares 
added to stocks representing capital losses in the portfolio at the beginning of the quarter, divided by the 
dollar value of all stock positions representing capital losses in the portfolio at the beginning of the 
quarter. Similarly, PGA is computed as the dollar value of shares added to stocks representing capital 
gains in the portfolio at the beginning of the quarter, divided by the dollar value of all stock positions 
representing capital gains in the portfolio at the beginning of the quarter. Every quarter I rank funds into 
deciles based on the DISP RATIO. Funds with the highest DISP RATIO are in the top decile (Portfolio 1) 
and funds with the lowest DISP RATIO are in the bottom decile (Portfolio 10). I compute the average  
DB across all the funds in each decile and each period, creating a time-series of cross-sectional DB 
averages, the mean of which is reported in this table for each decile.  

 
37
TABLE 8 
Relation between Fund Characteristics and Disposition Effect 
 
Dependent Variable: Positive Dif (1 if DISP>0 and 0 otherwise) 
Independent Variables 
Coefficients
 
Last Quarter 
-0.025
-0.025 
 
 
 
(-1.97) 
(-2.00) 
 
Past Fund Performance 
 
0.038 
0.039 
 
 
 
(1.16) 
(1.20) 
 
Past Fund Performance *Last Quarter
 
0.057 
0.056 
 
 
 
(0.56) 
(0.56) 
 
Outflow 
 
0.059 
0.059 
 
 
 
(7.44)  
(7.79) 
 
Team 
 
0.034 
0.031 
 
 
 
(3.22)  
(2.95) 
 
Number Stocks 
 
-0.047 
-0.059 
 
 
 
(-4.09)  
(-5.11) 
 
Herfindahl Index 
 
0.007 
0.009 
 
 
 
(2.53)  
(2.76) 
 
Amihud Ratio 
 
0.005 
0.003 
 
 
 
(1.64)  
(1.38) 
 
Past Stock Performance 
 
0.115 
0.112 
 
 
 
(4.23)  
(4.16) 
 
Fund Assets 
 
-0.001 
0.000 
 
 
 
(-0.29)  
(-0.08) 
 
Family Assets 
 
0.001 
0.003 
 
 
 
(0.44) 
(1.33) 
 
Portfolio Turnover 
 
0.000 
0.000 
 
 
 
(-3.19)  
(-2.83) 
 
Expense Ratio 
 
-0.004 
-0.006 
 
 
 
(-0.55)  
(-0.76) 
 
Load 
 
0.008 
0.007 
 
 
 
(0.66)  
(0.56) 
 
Objective Fixed Effects 
 
No 
Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pseudo R2 
 
1.49% 
2.13% 
 
Observations 
 
52,382 
52,382 
 
 
This table presents results from a logit regression that relates the tendency for funds to disproportionately 
realize more gains than losses to fund characteristics. Analysis is done at the fund and quarter level, with 
each fund at a given quarter representing a distinct observation. The dependent variable, Positive DISP, is 
an indicator variable that equals one for fund-quarter observations with positive disposition spreads and 
zero for those with zero or negative disposition spreads. The main set of independent variables include: 
Last Quarter, a dummy variable that equals one for observations in the last calendar quarter and zero 

 
38
otherwise; Past Fund Performance, the past 12-month risk-adjusted fund return from the Carhart 4-factor 
model; Outflow, an indicator variable that equals one if a fund experienced outflows in a given quarter 
and zero otherwise; Team, an indicator variable that equals one if a fund is managed by a team of 
portfolio managers and zero otherwise; Number of Stocks, the natural log of the number of stocks held in 
the fund portfolio; Herfindahl Index, sum of the squares of the portfolio weights in each stock, multiplied 
by 100; Amihud Ratio, the ratio of absolute return to dollar volume averaged (value-weighted) across all 
stocks sold in a mutual fund portfolio in a given quarter; and Past Stock Performance, the value-weighted 
average of past 12-month returns of all the stocks sold in a mutual fund portfolio in a given quarter. 
Additional independent variables include Fund Assets, Family Assets, Portfolio Turnover, Expense Ratio, 
and Load. Fund Assets represent the log of total net assets of the fund. Family Assets is the log of total 
net assets of the corresponding fund family. Portfolio Turnover is the fund’s turnover rate in percentage 
terms. Expense ratio is the fund’s expense ratio. Load equals one if a fund charges a load and zero if it 
does not. All independent variables are lagged by one quarter. Regressions are run with and without 
investment objective fixed effects. The marginal probabilities are reported along with the associated t-
statistics in parentheses. Standard errors are clustered by fund and period. 

 
39
TABLE 9 
Characteristics of Decile Portfolios formed on DISP RATIO 
 
DISP RATIO 
 
Fama-French (1993) Model 
 
Carhart (1997) Model 
Portfolios 
 
ALPHA 
RMRF 
SMB 
HML 
R2 
 
ALPHA 
RMRF 
SMB 
HML 
UMD 
R2 
1 
 
-0.214% 
0.928 
0.020 
0.249 
94.69% 
 
-0.133% 
0.893 
0.028 
0.213 
-0.087 
95.81% 
2 
 
-0.165% 
0.933 
0.047 
0.174 
96.47% 
 
-0.112% 
0.911 
0.053 
0.151 
-0.056 
96.94% 
3 
 
-0.199% 
0.936 
0.022 
0.073 
96.02% 
 
-0.164% 
0.921 
0.026 
0.058 
-0.038 
96.23% 
4 
 
-0.103% 
0.952 
0.055 
0.051 
96.29% 
 
-0.084% 
0.944 
0.057 
0.043 
-0.020 
96.35% 
5 
 
-0.103% 
0.945 
0.107 
-0.035 
97.70% 
 
-0.123% 
0.954 
0.105 
-0.026 
0.022 
97.77% 
6 
 
-0.067% 
0.943 
0.090 
-0.067 
96.88% 
 
-0.110% 
0.961 
0.086 
-0.048 
0.045 
97.15% 
7 
 
0.020% 
0.978 
0.052 
-0.086 
97.27% 
 
-0.018% 
0.994 
0.048 
-0.069 
0.041 
97.47% 
8 
 
-0.094% 
0.973 
0.085 
-0.105 
95.98% 
 
-0.128% 
0.987 
0.082 
-0.090 
0.036 
96.13% 
9 
 
0.060% 
0.962 
0.112 
-0.137 
96.66% 
 
-0.006% 
0.990 
0.106 
-0.107 
0.070 
97.24% 
10 
 
-0.040% 
1.028 
-0.003 
-0.152 
95.92% 
 
-0.075% 
1.043 
-0.006 
-0.136 
0.037 
96.07% 
1-10 
 
-0.175% 
-0.100 
0.023 
0.401 
48.51% 
 
-0.058% 
-0.149 
0.034 
0.349 
-0.124 
56.89% 
 
 
(-1.52) 
(-3.80) 
(0.64) 
(10.97) 
 
 
(-0.54) 
(-5.88) 
(1.06 
(10.09) 
(-6.10) 
 
 
This table reports factor loadings and alphas from the return series of DISP RATIO deciles portfolios. At the beginning of each quarter t, funds are 
ranked into deciles based on their DISP RATIO at quarter t-1. Funds with the highest DISP RATIO are placed in the top decile and those with the 
lowest DISP RATIO are placed in the bottom decile. Funds in each decile are placed into value-weighted portfolios and held for three months, with 
the same ranking procedure and portfolio updating repeated every quarter. A series of monthly returns is created for each of the decile portfolios 
and their style characteristics and performance are evaluated using the Fama and French (1993) and the Carhart (1997) models specified below.  
t
t
HML
t
SMB
t
MKT
t
HML
SMB
RMRF
a
R
ε
β
β
β
+
+
+
+
=
 
t
t
UMD
t
HML
t
SMB
t
MKT
t
UMD
HML
SMB
RMRF
a
R
ε
β
β
β
β
+
+
+
+
+
=
, 
where 
tR is the return in month t in excess of the risk-free rate. RMRFt, SMBt, HMLt, and UMDt are the month-t return differentials between the 
market portfolio and risk-free rate, small cap and large cap stocks, high and low book-to-market stocks, and positive and negative return-
momentum stocks, respectively. The associated t-statistics are in parentheses. 

 
40
Figure 1 
Large vs. Small Families by Subperiods
25.00%
30.00%
35.00%
40.00%
45.00%
50.00%
55.00%
(1980-1989)
(1990-1999)
(2000-2009)
Time Periods
% Funds with DISP>0
Large Family
Small Family
 
 
Figures 1 plots the fraction of funds with positive disposition spreads among large and small fund families for each 
of the three sample subperiods, 1980-1989, 1990-1999, 2000-2009. Large and small fund families correspond to 
families that fall in the top and bottom deciles formed by rankings on family size. 
  
 

 
 
 
CFR Working Paper Series 
 
 
 
 
 
  Centre for Financial Research 
 Cologne 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CFR Working Papers are available for download from www.cfr-cologne.de. 
 
Hardcopies can be ordered from: Centre for Financial Research (CFR),  
Albertus Magnus Platz, 50923 Koeln, Germany. 
 
2011 
 
No. 
Author(s) 
Title 
11-08 
 
 
11-07 
 
 
11-06 
 
 
11-05 
 
 
11-04 
 
11-03 
 
 
11-02 
 
11-01 
 
 
2010 
 
No. 
G. Cici, L.-F. Palacios 
 
 
V. Agarwal, G. D. Gay, 
L. Ling 
 
N. Hautsch, D. Hess, 
D. Veredas 
 
G. Cici 
 
 
S. Jank 
 
G.Fellner, E.Theissen 
 
 
S.Jank 
 
V. Agarwal, C. Meneghetti 
 
 
 
 
Author(s) 
On the Use of Options by Mutual Funds: Do They Know What 
They Are Doing? 
 
Window Dressing in Mutual Funds 
 
 
The Impact of Macroeconomic News on Quote Adjustments, 
Noise, and Informational Volatility 
 
The Prevalence of the Disposition Effect in Mutual Funds' 
Trades  
 
Mutual Fund Flows, Expected Returns and the Real Economy 
 
Short Sale Constraints, Divergence of Opinion and Asset 
Value: Evidence from the Laboratory 
 
Are There Disadvantaged Clienteles in Mutual Funds? 
 
The role of Hedge Funds as Primary Lenders 
 
 
 
 
Title 
 
10-20 
 
 
10-19 
 
 
 
10-18 
 
 
10-17 
 
 
10-16 
 
G. Cici, S. Gibson,  
J.J. Merrick Jr. 
 
J. Hengelbrock,  
E. Theissen, Ch. 
Westheide 
 
G. Cici, S. Gibson 
 
 
D. Hess, D. Kreutzmann, 
O. Pucker 
 
S. Jank, M. Wedow 
 
Missing the Marks? Dispersion in Corporate Bond Valuations 
Across Mutual Funds 
 
Market Response to Investor Sentiment 
 
 
 
The Performance of Corporate-Bond Mutual Funds:  
Evidence Based on Security-Level Holdings 
 
Projected Earnings Accuracy and the Profitability of Stock 
Recommendations 
 
Sturm und Drang in Money Market Funds: When Money 
Market Funds Cease to Be Narrow 
 
 
 
10-15 
G. Cici, A. Kempf, A. 
Puetz 
Caught in the Act:  
How Hedge Funds Manipulate their Equity Positions 
 
 
 
10-14 
J. Grammig, S. Jank 
Creative Destruction and Asset Prices 

 
 
 
10-13 
S. Jank, M. Wedow 
Purchase and Redemption Decisions of Mutual Fund 
Investors and the Role of Fund Families 
 
 
 
10-12 
S. Artmann, P. Finter, 
A. Kempf, S. Koch,  
E. Theissen 
The Cross-Section of German Stock Returns: 
New Data and New Evidence 
 
 
 
10-11 
M. Chesney, A. Kempf 
The Value of Tradeability 
 
 
 
10-10 
S. Frey, P. Herbst 
The Influence of Buy-side Analysts on 
Mutual Fund Trading 
 
 
 
10-09 
V. Agarwal, W. Jiang, 
Y. Tang, B. Yang 
Uncovering Hedge Fund Skill from the Portfolio Holdings They 
Hide 
 
 
 
10-08 
V. Agarwal, V. Fos,  
W. Jiang 
Inferring Reporting Biases in Hedge Fund Databases from 
Hedge Fund Equity Holdings 
 
 
 
10-07 
V. Agarwal, G. Bakshi,  
J. Huij 
Do Higher-Moment Equity Risks Explain Hedge Fund 
Returns? 
 
 
 
10-06 
J. Grammig, F. J. Peter 
Tell-Tale Tails 
 
 
 
10-05 
K. Drachter, A. Kempf 
Höhe, Struktur und Determinanten der Managervergütung- 
Eine Analyse der Fondsbranche in Deutschland 
 
 
 
10-04 
J. Fang, A. Kempf,  
M. Trapp  
Fund Manager Allocation 
 
 
 
10-03 
P. Finter, A. Niessen-
Ruenzi, S. Ruenzi 
The Impact of Investor Sentiment on the German Stock Market
 
 
 
10-02 
D. Hunter, E. Kandel,  
S. Kandel, R. Wermers 
Endogenous Benchmarks 
 
 
 
10-01 
S. Artmann, P. Finter,  
A. Kempf 
Determinants of Expected Stock Returns: Large Sample 
Evidence from the German Market 
 
 
2009 
 
No. 
Author(s) 
Title 
 
09-17 
 
E. Theissen 
 
Price Discovery in Spot and Futures Markets: 
A Reconsideration 
 
 
 
09-16 
M. Trapp 
Trading the Bond-CDS Basis – The Role of Credit Risk  
and Liquidity 
 
 
 
09-14 
A. Kempf, O. Korn, 
M. Uhrig-Homburg 
The Term Structure of Illiquidity Premia 
 
 
 
09-13 
W. Bühler, M. Trapp 
Time-Varying Credit Risk and Liquidity Premia in Bond and 
CDS Markets 
 
 
 
09-12 
W. Bühler, M. Trapp 
 
Explaining the Bond-CDS Basis – The Role of Credit Risk and 
Liquidity 
 
 
 
09-11 
S. J. Taylor, P. K. Yadav,  
Y. Zhang 
Cross-sectional analysis of risk-neutral skewness 
 
 
 
09-10 
A. Kempf, C. Merkle,  
A. Niessen 
Low Risk and High Return - How Emotions Shape 
Expectations on the Stock Market 
 
 
 
09-09 
V. Fotak, V. Raman,  
P. K. Yadav 
Naked Short Selling: The Emperor`s New Clothes? 
 
 
 
09-08 
F. Bardong, S.M. Bartram,  
P.K. Yadav 
Informed Trading, Information Asymmetry and Pricing of 
Information Risk: Empirical Evidence from the NYSE 
 
 
 

09-07 
S. J. Taylor , P. K. Yadav, 
Y. Zhang 
The information content of implied volatilities and model-free 
volatility expectations: Evidence from options written on 
individual stocks 
 
 
 
09-06 
S. Frey, P. Sandas 
The Impact of Iceberg Orders in Limit Order Books 
 
 
 
09-05 
H. Beltran-Lopez, P. Giot, 
J. Grammig 
Commonalities in the Order Book 
 
 
 
09-04 
J. Fang, S. Ruenzi 
Rapid Trading bei deutschen Aktienfonds: 
Evidenz aus einer großen deutschen Fondsgesellschaft 
 
 
 
09-03 
A. Banegas, B. Gillen,      
A. Timmermann,  
R. Wermers 
The Performance of European Equity Mutual Funds 
 
 
 
09-02 
J. Grammig, A. Schrimpf, 
M. Schuppli 
Long-Horizon Consumption Risk and the Cross-Section  
of Returns: New Tests and International Evidence 
 
 
 
09-01 
O. Korn, P. Koziol 
The Term Structure of Currency Hedge Ratios 
 
 
 
 
 
2008 
 
No. 
Author(s) 
Title 
 
08-12 
 
U. Bonenkamp,                
C. Homburg, A. Kempf    
 
Fundamental Information in Technical Trading Strategies 
 
 
 
08-11 
O. Korn 
Risk Management with Default-risky Forwards 
 
 
 
08-10  
J. Grammig, F.J. Peter 
International Price Discovery in the Presence 
of Market Microstructure Effects 
 
 
 
08-09 
C. M. Kuhnen, A. Niessen 
Public Opinion and Executive Compensation 
 
 
 
08-08 
A. Pütz, S. Ruenzi 
Overconfidence among Professional Investors: Evidence from 
Mutual Fund Managers 
 
 
 
08-07 
P. Osthoff 
What matters to SRI investors? 
 
 
 
 
08-06 
 
 
08-05 
 
 
 
08-04 
 
A. Betzer, E. Theissen 
 
 
P. Linge, E. Theissen 
 
 
 
N. Hautsch, D. Hess,  
C. Müller 
 
Sooner Or Later: Delays in Trade Reporting by Corporate 
Insiders 
 
Determinanten der Aktionärspräsenz auf 
Hauptversammlungen deutscher Aktiengesellschaften 
 
 
Price Adjustment to News with Uncertain Precision 
 
 
 
08-03 
D. Hess, H. Huang,  
A. Niessen 
How Do Commodity Futures Respond to Macroeconomic 
News? 
 
 
 
08-02 
R. Chakrabarti,  
W. Megginson, P. Yadav 
Corporate Governance in India 
 
 
 
 
08-01 
C. Andres, E. Theissen 
Setting a Fox to Keep the Geese - Does the Comply-or-Explain 
Principle Work? 
 
 
2007 
 
No. 
Author(s) 
Title 
 
07-16 
 
M. Bär, A. Niessen,  
S. Ruenzi 
 
The Impact of Work Group Diversity on Performance: 
Large Sample Evidence from the Mutual Fund Industry 
 
 
 

07-15 
A. Niessen, S. Ruenzi 
Political Connectedness and Firm Performance:  
Evidence From Germany 
 
 
 
07-14 
O. Korn 
Hedging Price Risk when Payment Dates are Uncertain 
 
 
 
07-13 
A. Kempf, P. Osthoff 
SRI Funds: Nomen est Omen 
 
 
 
07-12 
J. Grammig, E. Theissen, 
O. Wuensche 
Time and Price Impact of a Trade: A Structural Approach 
 
 
 
07-11 
V. Agarwal, J. R. Kale 
On the Relative Performance of Multi-Strategy and Funds of 
Hedge Funds 
 
 
 
07-10 
M. Kasch-Haroutounian, 
E. Theissen 
Competition Between Exchanges: Euronext versus Xetra 
 
 
 
07-09 
V. Agarwal, N. D. Daniel, 
N. Y. Naik 
Do hedge funds manage their reported returns?  
 
 
 
 
07-08 
N. C. Brown, K. D. Wei,  
R. Wermers 
Analyst Recommendations, Mutual Fund Herding, and 
Overreaction in Stock Prices 
 
 
 
07-07 
A. Betzer, E. Theissen 
Insider Trading and Corporate Governance: 
The Case of Germany 
 
 
 
07-06 
V. Agarwal, L. Wang 
Transaction Costs and Value Premium 
 
 
 
07-05 
J. Grammig, A. Schrimpf 
Asset Pricing with a Reference Level of Consumption: 
New Evidence from the Cross-Section of Stock Returns 
 
 
 
07-04 
V. Agarwal, N.M. Boyson, 
N.Y. Naik 
Hedge Funds for retail investors? 
An examination of hedged mutual funds 
 
 
 
07-03 
D. Hess, A. Niessen  
The Early News Catches the Attention: 
On the Relative Price Impact of Similar Economic Indicators 
 
 
 
07-02 
A. Kempf, S. Ruenzi, 
T. Thiele  
Employment Risk, Compensation Incentives and Managerial 
Risk Taking - Evidence from the Mutual Fund Industry - 
 
 
 
07-01 
M. Hagemeister, A. Kempf CAPM und erwartete Renditen: Eine Untersuchung auf Basis 
der Erwartung von Marktteilnehmern 
 
 
2006 
 
No. 
Author(s) 
Title 
 
06-13 
 
S. Čeljo-Hörhager,  
A. Niessen 
 
How do Self-fulfilling Prophecies affect Financial Ratings? - An 
experimental study 
 
 
 
06-12 
R. Wermers, Y. Wu,  
J. Zechner 
Portfolio Performance, Discount Dynamics, and the Turnover 
of Closed-End Fund Managers 
 
 
 
06-11 
U. v. Lilienfeld-Toal, 
S. Ruenzi 
Why Managers Hold Shares of Their Firm: An Empirical 
Analysis 
 
06-10 
A. Kempf, P. Osthoff 
The Effect of Socially Responsible Investing on Portfolio 
Performance 
 
 
 
06-09 
R. Wermers, T. Yao,  
J. Zhao 
The Investment Value of Mutual Fund Portfolio Disclosure 
 
 
 
06-08 
M. Hoffmann, B. Kempa 
The Poole Analysis in the New Open Economy 
Macroeconomic Framework 
 
06-07 
K. Drachter, A. Kempf, 
M. Wagner 
Decision Processes in German Mutual Fund Companies: 
Evidence from a Telephone Survey 
 
 
 
06-06 
J.P. Krahnen, F.A. 
Schmid, E. Theissen 
Investment Performance and Market Share: A Study of the 
German Mutual Fund Industry 
 
 
 
06-05 
S. Ber, S. Ruenzi 
On the Usability of Synthetic Measures of Mutual Fund Net-

Flows 
 
 
 
06-04 
A. Kempf, D. Mayston 
Liquidity Commonality Beyond Best Prices 
 
06-03 
O. Korn, C. Koziol 
Bond Portfolio Optimization: A Risk-Return Approach 
 
 
 
06-02 
O. Scaillet, L. Barras, R. 
Wermers 
False Discoveries in Mutual Fund Performance: Measuring 
Luck in Estimated Alphas 
 
 
 
06-01 
A. Niessen, S. Ruenzi 
Sex Matters: Gender Differences in a Professional Setting 
 
 
2005 
 
No. 
Author(s) 
Title 
 
05-16 
 
E. Theissen 
 
An Analysis of Private Investors´ Stock Market Return 
Forecasts 
 
 
 
05-15 
T. Foucault, S. Moinas,  
E. Theissen 
Does Anonymity Matter in Electronic Limit Order Markets 
 
 
 
05-14 
R. Kosowski,  
A. Timmermann,  
R. Wermers, H. White 
Can Mutual Fund „Stars“ Really Pick Stocks? 
New Evidence from a Bootstrap Analysis 
 
 
 
05-13 
D. Avramov, R. Wermers 
Investing in Mutual Funds when Returns are Predictable 
 
 
 
05-12 
K. Griese, A. Kempf 
Liquiditätsdynamik am deutschen Aktienmarkt 
 
 
 
05-11 
S. Ber, A. Kempf,  
S. Ruenzi 
Determinanten der Mittelzuflüsse bei deutschen Aktienfonds 
 
 
 
05-10 
M. Bär, A. Kempf,  
S. Ruenzi 
Is a Team Different From the Sum of Its Parts? 
Evidence from Mutual Fund Managers 
 
 
 
05-09 
M. Hoffmann 
Saving, Investment and the Net Foreign Asset Position 
 
 
 
05-08 
S. Ruenzi 
Mutual Fund Growth in Standard and Specialist Market 
Segments 
 
 
 
05-07 
A. Kempf, S. Ruenzi 
Status Quo Bias and the Number of Alternatives 
- An Empirical Illustration from the Mutual Fund  
Industry – 
 
 
 
05-06 
 
 
05-05 
J. Grammig,  
E. Theissen 
 
H. Beltran,  
J. Grammig,  
A.J. Menkveld 
Is Best Really Better? Internalization of Orders in an Open 
Limit Order Book 
 
Understanding the Limit Order Book: Conditioning on Trade 
Informativeness 
 
 
 
05-04 
M. Hoffmann 
Compensating Wages under different Exchange rate Regimes 
 
 
 
05-03 
M. Hoffmann 
Fixed versus Flexible Exchange Rates: Evidence from 
Developing Countries 
 
 
 
05-02 
A. Kempf, C. Memmel 
On the Estimation of the Global Minimum Variance Portfolio 
 
 
 
05-01 
S. Frey, J. Grammig 
Liquidity supply and adverse selection in a pure limit order 
book market 
 
 
2004 
 
No. 
Author(s) 
Title 
 
04-10 
 
N. Hautsch, D. Hess 
 
Bayesian Learning in Financial Markets – Testing for the 
Relevance of Information Precision in Price Discovery 
 
 
 
04-09 
A. Kempf,  
Portfolio Disclosure, Portfolio Selection and Mutual Fund 

K. Kreuzberg 
Performance Evaluation 
 
 
 
04-08 
N.F. Carline, S.C. Linn, 
P.K. Yadav  
Operating performance changes associated with corporate 
mergers and the role of corporate governance 
 
 
 
04-07 
J.J. Merrick, Jr., N.Y.  
Naik, P.K. Yadav 
Strategic Trading Behavior and Price Distortion in a 
Manipulated Market: Anatomy of a Squeeze  
 
 
 
04-06 
N.Y. Naik, P.K. Yadav  
Trading Costs of Public Investors with Obligatory and 
Voluntary Market-Making: Evidence from Market Reforms 
 
 
 
04-05 
A. Kempf, S. Ruenzi 
Family Matters: Rankings Within Fund Families and  
Fund Inflows 
 
 
 
04-04 
V. Agarwal,  
N.D. Daniel, N.Y. Naik 
Role of Managerial Incentives and Discretion in Hedge Fund 
Performance 
 
 
 
04-03 
V. Agarwal, W.H. Fung, 
J.C. Loon, N.Y. Naik 
Risk and Return in Convertible Arbitrage:  
Evidence from the Convertible Bond Market 
 
 
 
04-02 
A. Kempf, S. Ruenzi 
Tournaments in Mutual Fund Families 
 
 
 
04-01 
I. Chowdhury, M. 
Hoffmann, A. Schabert 
Inflation Dynamics and the Cost Channel of Monetary 
Transmission 
 

Cfr/University of cologne
Albertus-Magnus-Platz  
D-50923 Cologne
Fon +49(0)221-470-6995
Fax +49(0)221-470-3992
Kempf@cfr-Cologne.de
www.cfr-cologne.de
