NBER WORKING PAPER SERIES
WAGE FIXING
Axel Gottfries
Gregor Jarosch
Working Paper 33501
http://www.nber.org/papers/w33501
NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH
1050 Massachusetts Avenue
Cambridge, MA 02138
February 2025, Revised April 2026
Thanks to David Berger, Hannes Malmberg, Laura Pilossoph, Tommaso Porzio, and Isaac Sorkin 
for useful conversations. Thanks to Larry Warren for discussion. Thanks to Leqing Huang for 
research assistance. Gottfries thanks the European Research Council (ERC Starting Grant 
101220912) for financial support. The views expressed herein are those of the authors and do not 
necessarily reflect the views of the National Bureau of Economic Research.
NBER working papers are circulated for discussion and comment purposes. They have not been 
peer-reviewed or been subject to the review by the NBER Board of Directors that accompanies 
official NBER publications.
© 2025 by Axel Gottfries and Gregor Jarosch. All rights reserved. Short sections of text, not to 
exceed two paragraphs, may be quoted without explicit permission provided that full credit, 
including © notice, is given to the source.

Wage Fixing
Axel Gottfries and Gregor Jarosch 
NBER Working Paper No. 33501 
February 2025, Revised April 2026
JEL No. E0, J0
ABSTRACT
We model and analyze employer cartels that fix wages by committing to a wage ceiling. The setting 
is a frictional labor market with large employers that compete for workers via posted wages. Wage 
fixing reduces competition both inside and outside the cartel, leading to market-wide wage 
depression. Competition from outside employers disciplines the cartel and hence governs its wage 
impact and profitability. Consequently, wage-fixing schemes are more likely to emerge and remain 
stable when the labor market has slack, concentration is high, the span of control is small, product 
demand is elastic, and firms also collude in the product market. We describe a simple sufficient 
statistic to gauge the harm caused by a wage-fixing cartel.
Axel Gottfries
The University of Edinburgh
axel.gottfries@gmail.com
Gregor Jarosch
Duke University
Department of Economics
and NBER
gregorjarosch@gmail.com

“We rarely hear, it has been said, of the combinations of masters, though frequently of those of
workmen. But whoever imagines, upon this account, that masters rarely combine, is as ignorant
of the world as of the subject. Masters are always and everywhere in a sort of tacit, but constant
and uniform combination, not to raise the wages of labour above their actual rate. [...] We seldom,
indeed, hear of this combination, because it is the usual, and one may say, the natural state of things,
which nobody ever hears of.”
(Adam Smith, Wealth of Nations, Book I, Chapter VIII, Of the Wages of Labour, 1776)
1
Introduction
Concerns that employers collude to suppress wages date back centuries but have recently
drawn renewed interest from competition authorities in the US and Europe. For example,
a 2021 US presidential executive order explicitly encouraged the Federal Trade Commis-
sion (FTC) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) to prevent employers from collaborating to
suppress wages (The President, 2021). Similar concerns have been expressed by European
competition authorities (Joint Nordic Report, 2024; Aresu et al., 2024), following a broader
shift in modern antitrust research and regulation towards the labor market. This policy
shift has coincided with a growing number of legal cases related to employer collusion
(see, e.g., Kariel et al. (2024)).
The DOJ and FTC antitrust guidelines emphasize two distinct forms of collusion in the
labor market: wage-fixing agreements, where employers coordinate on salary levels or
ranges, and no-poaching agreements, where they agree not to hire each other’s employees
(DOJ and FTC, 2016). Both practices have seen little attention from economists studying
labor markets and antitrust.
This paper focuses on wage-fixing agreements. We show how to model employer car-
tels that fix wages in a canonical model of employment and wages in a frictional labor
market. The cartel colludes on a wage ceiling (“going rate”), curbing wage competition
for workers. We obtain a sharp characterization of the resulting equilibrium pay distri-
bution which we complement with a rich set of qualitative and quantitative numerical
observations.
Our approach allows us to i) understand the economic mechanisms through which
wage fixing might depress wages, ii) capture its full general equilibrium effect, iii) iden-
tify settings in which collusion is particularly likely to be stable, profitable, or damaging
to workers, and iv) assess its impact without the demanding information required by a
1

production-function based approach in the industrial organization tradition. In addition,
our emphasis on firm granularity allows us to better understand the interplay between
wage fixing schemes and market structure.
Our theory builds on the dynamic monopsony model in Gottfries and Jarosch (2026).
This is a wage posting model in the spirit of the Burdett and Mortensen (1998) (BM) text-
book environment which lends itself naturally to wage-fixing schemes because it is an
explicit model of competition in the labor market via wage posting, with employers poach-
ing each other’s workers via higher pay along the job ladder. An explicit and descriptively
appealing notion of wage fixing thus arises naturally: A subset of the employers can form
a cartel that agrees not to offer pay above some ceiling.
Compared with the textbook setting, our framework has granular firms, decreasing
returns to scale in production, market power in the product market, and a linear hiring
technology. This makes the environment richer, more flexible, and useful for quantitative
analysis in a broad range of settings.
After laying out the environment, the main theoretical results establish key properties
of the equilibrium wage offer distribution in the presence of a wage-fixing cartel. Absent
wage fixing, employers post dispersed, continuously distributed wages. With wage-fixing,
there exist several different cases, depending on how aggressively the cartel restricts pay
(which we take to be exogenous to begin with). When the wage ceiling is tight, then all
cartel employers offer the ceiling, while the remaining, outside employers offer dispersed
wages that begin just above it.
In proving the main existence and uniqueness result (Proposition 1), we establish the
full equilibrium characterization, along with several intermediate results that illustrate the
key economics at play. We show, for instance, that there cannot be any mass or any gaps in
the wage offer distribution away from the wage ceiling and that all firms of the same type
act symmetrically.
We next examine the impact of a wage fixing cartel on wages, employment, and profits.
There are spillovers to the outside employers, who disproportionately benefit from wage
fixing. This is not surprising because the outsiders can always mimic the cartel, so they
must fare at least weakly better, but it has strong implications.
First, it means that the outsiders have no incentive to “blow the whistle” on the cartel.
Second, it means that a wage-fixing cartel is fragile, since profits are higher outside. We
2

argue that the temptation to leave the cartel, a common force in collusion settings (Asker
and Nocke, 2021), is muted in our granular environment. A large cartel member contem-
plating exit recognizes that such a move would shift the overall equilibrium, resulting in
a jump in pay and drop in profits everywhere. Consequently, a cartel is more likely to
emerge and be stable in a concentrated labor market.
Third, it means that the outside firms’ labor demand response acts as a constraint on
the cartel. If the cartel is too aggressive in curbing wages, the outside competitors—which
benefit heavily from cartel activity—expand employment and drive the cartel firms out of
the market.
We investigate the disciplining role of the outside employers further and ask how a
cartel optimally sets its wage ceiling. We find that an optimizing cartel generally pays
well above the reservation wage. A key prediction is thus that harm and profits caused by
a wage fixing cartel are large whenever the response of the outside competition is muted.
For similar reasons, wage-fixing cartels are only profitable when a sufficiently large por-
tion of the market participates.1
We then extend the model along two dimensions for quantitative analysis. First, we
add capital to production. Second, we generalize to inelastic product demand which then
allows us to consider various forms of conduct in the output market. Most importantly,
we consider cases where the cartel colludes in both the labor and the product market.
We use a benchmark US calibration for a (local) labor market and then introduce a
cartel similar in size to the one that has been documented in the US poultry processing
industry (DOJ Antitrust Division, 2023).2 Instead of focusing on a single, quantitative
benchmark, we explore a range of cases with a focus on comparative statics, asking which
features of the environment make wage fixing cartels particularly harmful to workers.
Our baseline calibration suggests that the overall labor market impact of wage fixing is
quantitatively modest. We find that removing the cartel results in market-wide wage gains
of just over 2%. Varying key model parameters, however, underscores the critical role of
outside firms in disciplining a wage-fixing cartel. For instance, cartel-driven wage losses
quickly rise to 6-8% when outside competition is low because the labor market has slack,
1We do not endogenize participation or selection into the wage fixing cartel. Instead, we characterize equi-
librium in the labor market given the presence of a cartel.
2Multiple US meat and poultry processing employers recently settled in a string of wage fixing cases, see,
e.g., Reuters and Reuters (Scarcella, 2024a,b).
3

or unresponsive because labor and other inputs are strong complements in production.
To the same point, we find a key role for the span of control in determining the wage
losses from wage fixing. If the outside firms ramp up employment in response to their
cost advantage, the cartel can only do limited damage.
The quantitative section next explores how the product market affects the impact of
wage-fixing schemes. When demand is inelastic, the outside firms pass through their cost
gains from wage fixing leading to lower prices, a force that keeps a wage fixing cartel in
check. Further, we show that a cartel that also colludes in the product market optimally
sets a lower wage ceiling.
We speculate that these findings may explain why wage fixing has frequently been
documented in sectors where the labor market is often concentrated and competition is
weak (such as the US food processing industry) or in sectors where one might suspect that
collusion easily extends into the product market (e.g., health, sports, education).3
We conclude the paper with a final section that offers a sufficient statistic to calculate
the (wage) harm caused to workers by a wage-fixing cartel. The appeal is that it sidesteps
the need to solve the model: the calculations use endogenous objects, such as employment
inside and outside the cartel, along with model primitives, and require only industry-
specific information that can be obtained on a case-by-case basis. This makes the approach
useful for practitioners assessing harm in specific cases.
Related literature
This paper is related to a large and growing literature on market power and barriers to
competition in the labor market. That literature frequently takes a static, frictionless, “new
classical” (Manning, 2021) approach to competition in the labor market (Robinson, 1933;
Card et al., 2018; Berger et al., 2022). In contrast, we take a “modern” or “dynamic” (Man-
ning, 2021) approach that roots market power of employers in search frictions in the BM
tradition. In the same vein, Gouin-Bonenfant (2022) explores the implications of increas-
ingly dispersed firm productivity in a BM setting for competition in the labor market.
Heise and Porzio (2023) apply an extended BM framework to study spatial inequality.
3See, e.g., various DOJ indictments for nurses (U.S. v. Ryan Hee and VDA OC, LLC, formerly Advantage on
Call, LLC, 2021), physiotherapist (United States v. Jindal, 2020), healthcare workers (United States v. Manahe,
2022) or recent case in Lithuania for basketball players.
4

Other recent applications of BM include Lhuillier (2025), Bilal and Lhuillier (2025), En-
gbom and Moser (2022), Engbom et al. (2026), and Lo Bello and Pesaresi (2025). Our
paper also relates to recent work that introduces decreasing returns to scale production
into random on-the-job search models (Bilal et al., 2022; Elsby and Gottfries, 2022; Lentz
and Mortensen, 2022). Jarosch et al. (2024) is a related framework that has large firms in a
frictional labor market and wage bargaining. In our setting, wages are posted.
Despite the attention from regulators and its anecdotal ubiquity, employer collusion
in the labor market has seen little attention from academic economists. Recent exceptions
studying collusion theoretically include Martins and Thomas (2023) and Bisceglia (2024).
An empirical exception is Delabastita and Rubens (2024) whose approach detects collu-
sion in the labor market via otherwise unexplained markdowns. Similarly, Sharma (2024)
develops a test in the neoclassical setting that registers labor market collusion whenever
firms expand in response to a competitors’ positive demand shock, detecting significant
collusion in the Indian textile industry. These approaches towards collusion in the labor
market in the IO tradition typically lump all forms of employer collusion into reduced-
form wedges. In contrast, this is the first paper to model wage fixing explicitly from first
principles.
Of course, our paper is also related to a large and mature literature in IO on cartels,
collusion, and price fixing. It emphasizes questions around cartel formation and cartel
stability that are closely related to some of those we discuss in the context of the labor
market. Several differences are worth noting. First, this literature has, to date, almost
exclusively focused on product markets.4 Our focus is on cartels in the labor market. Sec-
ond, while the IO literature includes work on partial cartels with a competitive fringe, the
canonical models and much of the applied work focus on full-participation cartels. In con-
trast, we allow for the coexistence between cartel and non-cartel employers and analyze
how non-colluding firms constrain collusive behavior, generating equilibrium spillovers
that discipline the cartel and shape its impact. In addition, we also model cartels that
operate jointly in the labor and in the product market.
Furthermore, our framework jointly determines employment and wages, prices and
output and can hence speak to the full general equilibrium effects of a wage fixing scheme.
4“The Economics of Collusion” (Marshall and Marx, 2012) and other books and survey articles such as
Asker and Nocke (2021) on “Collusion, Mergers, and Related Antitrust Issues” pay virtually no attention to
labor markets.
5

In contrast, the IO literature typically works with partial equilibrium frameworks. Finally,
we work with a dynamic monopsony search model—a workhorse in the “macro-labor”
approach to study employment, wages, and (imperfect) competition in the labor market—
making it a natural starting point for the study of wage fixing cartels.
2
Model
We extend the model of Gottfries and Jarosch (2026) to incorporate collusion between em-
ployers. We first outline the baseline model and then describe how we model wage fixing
by an employer cartel in this setting.
The framework features search frictions, wage posting, and on-the-job-search, along
the lines of Burdett and Mortensen (1998). Time is continuous, and workers and firms
both discount the future at rate r. There is a unit measure of workers. Workers receive flow
income b when unemployed, while employed workers receive a contracted wage w and
lose their jobs becoming unemployed at rate δ. There are M symmetric profit-maximizing
firms, all large with respect to the labor market in the sense that they will each employ a
strictly positive fraction of the workforce. Firm i operates a decreasing-returns production
function, xnα
i , with ni denoting the measure of employees and x denoting common pro-
ductivity. All firms produce a homogeneous good. There is a minimum wage wmin which,
for the theoretical analysis, we assume is binding.
Search is random, and workers search for jobs both on and off the job. Employers hence
experience turnover because workers move both to unemployment and to better paying
jobs. To hire, firms post wages and decide on a rate at which they make offers to workers,
both employed and unemployed. Doing so is costless—firms can locate as many workers
as they like instantaneously—but whenever a firm hires a worker, it needs to pay a hiring,
or training cost c. There is hence an upside to higher pay: it lowers turnover and so the
employer incurs less expenses on training and hiring replacement workers.
Because firms are large and search is random, employed workers sometimes receive
job offers from their own employers. We assume that if the worker receives such an offer
and it comes with a higher wage, she is free to accept that offer. In this event, the firm does
not need to pay the hiring cost again. To the extent that firms post dispersed wages, there
is hence scope for internal raises. We focus on a stationary equilibrium.
6

For the exposition and the theoretical analysis, we assume that demand in the output
market is perfectly elastic, with price p normalized to 1. In Section B, we endogenize the
price, assuming quasi-linear utility over consumption and entertaining several different
forms of conduct in the product market. We pay particular attention to the case where the
employer cartel also colludes in the product market.
Wage Fixing in the Labor Market
We are interested in a case where a subset of employers in the market fixes wages. Specifi-
cally, we consider a case where K ∈{2, 3, . . . , M} cartel members agree not to offer wages
above some wage ceiling w f . We take that ceiling to be exogenous to begin with and then
later consider its optimal level from the perspective of the cartel. We denote the set of firms
in the cartel by C. For lack of a better term, we call the M −K firms not in the cartel the
outside employers.
This type of employer collusion is illegal in most countries, which raises the question of
who, beyond the K participants, is aware of it. We assume that all employers in the labor
market are aware, including those outside the cartel. The M −K outsiders thus respond
to the presence (and the choices) of the cartel when making wage offers and choosing
employment. We show below that the outside employers benefit from the presence of the
cartel, and hence have no incentive to whistle-blow.
We also assume that workers are aware of the collusion. However, for most of the anal-
ysis below, we assume that the minimum wage is binding. This is isomorphic to the case
where workers are unaware of the collusion and therefore do not adjust their reservation
wage in response to cartel activity, since in either case the effective lower bound on wages
is unresponsive to the cartel. Such a scenario seems natural given that these practices are
illicit, happen in secrecy, and have, until recently, received little attention. In the quantita-
tive section, we explore the case where the minimum wage is not binding and the lowest
wage hence responds to wage fixing.
Workers
Workers in the baseline setting know all primitives and have rational expectations over
the equilibrium, fully aware of any collusion. They only make one meaningful decision—
the reservation wage, which we characterize in this section—and otherwise mechanically
7

move up the wage ladder.
Unemployed and employed workers make contact with some employer j at rates ψj
and sψj, respectively, where s ≤1. If that happens, they draw from the firm’s distribution
of posted wages Fj.
Workers’ preferences are linear in income. Let w ≡max{wr, wmin}. A worker’s value
of unemployment and employment at wage w hence satisfy, respectively,
rU
=
b + ∑
j
ψj
ˆ ∞
w
(W ( ˜w) −U) dFj ( ˜w) ,
(1)
rW (w)
=
w + δ (U −W (w)) + ∑
j
sψj
ˆ ∞
w
max {W ( ˜w) −W (w) , 0} dFj ( ˜w) .
(2)
The reservation wage satisfies W(wr) = U, which by standard arguments yields
wr = b + (1 −s)
ˆ ∞
wr
∑j ψj
 1 −Fj( ˜w)

r + δ + ∑j sψj
 1 −Fj ( ˜w)
d ˜w.
(3)
If the minimum wage is binding, wmin > wr, then the reservation wage is still well defined
via (3) but does not affect the allocation.
Transitions
The identity of the employer—whether in the cartel or not—does not affect
the worker above and beyond the wage because it does not affect the value of search.
The optimal job acceptance policy of employed workers is therefore simple: accept any
strictly higher wage offer and identical wage offers with small, positive probability κ.5 The
probability that a worker with wage w accepts a random job offer from firm i is therefore
1 −ˆFi(w) ≡1 −Fi(w) + κ
 Fi(w) −Fi(w−)

,
(4)
where w−refers to the left limit.
Firms
Firms maximize steady-state flow profits as in Burdett and Mortensen (1998). Gottfries
and Jarosch (2026) show that there exists a dual formulation of the firm problem where
5We emphasize that κ is small since the main uniqueness proof requires a sufficiently small value to rule out
asymmetric equilibria; see Lemma C.8.
8

firm i directly chooses its employment ni and the distribution of wages across employed
workers, denoted Gi. To implement the optimal time-invariant solution, firms i) initially
hire their desired number of workers at the desired distribution of wages; and ii) then
maintain this via a constant contact rate ψi and distribution of posted wages Fi. Because
the hiring technology is linear, this is feasible.6
Of course, all cartel employers are subject to an additional, self-imposed constraint,
namely that pay must not exceed w f . The firm problem is hence
rΠi =
max{ni,Gi} xnα
i −ni
´ ∞
w

w + c

r + δ + ∑j̸=i sψj
 1 −ˆFj (w)

dGi(w). (5)
subject to:
Gi(w−) = 0, limw→∞Gi(w) = 1, Gi(w f ) = 1 if i ∈C,
Gi(w1) ≤Gi(w2) for all w1 < w2.
The right hand side consists of gross revenue net of the wage bill and turnover costs which
we jointly refer to as the user cost of labor. Turnover is wage-specific because higher wages
come with a lower quit rate. The turnover cost includes, in annuitized form, the cost of hir-
ing the initial workforce implying that this formulation takes the cost of the instantaneous
transition to steady state into account. 7
As is implicit in the statement of the firm problem, firms take the reservation wage wr
and their competitors’ actions—the contact rates ψj and offer distributions ˆFj—as given
when making their choices.8 In that sense, we consider a Nash equilibrium where the
agents, despite being large, take each other’s actions as given.
3
Theoretical results
This section offers a theoretical analysis of the equilibrium effects of employer collusion.
As a backdrop, we briefly characterize the equilibrium without collusion in Appendix A
in closed form. The unique equilibrium is symmetric with all firms posting uniformly
6Firms may choose a distribution with a finite number of intervals with densities, mass points (including
degenerate distributions), and gaps. Exotic distributions not covered by this description, such as the Cantor
distribution, are ruled out to avoid cumbersome notation.
7In Burdett and Mortensen (1998) and (the baseline of) Gottfries and Jarosch (2026) firms just maximize
steady state flow profits, not accounting for the cost of the initial hires.
8To keep notation simple, we do not let the firm choose distributions with infinite number of nondifferen-
tiable points (such as the Cantor distribution).
9

distributed wages from w. This guarantees user cost equalization, with every dollar of
additional pay returning a dollar of turnover costs saved. Employment in turn is such that
the marginal revenue product of labor equals the user cost.
3.1
Equilibrium with wage fixing
We next study the case where K out of the M employers collude to not raise the wage
above some threshold w f . We do not impose on the equilibrium that w f is set optimally or
that forming or joining the cartel is rational. Instead, we first characterize equilibria given
some K and w f and then study how user cost, wages, and profits for cartel members and
outsiders depend on both these variables in Section 3.3. We relegate most formal details
and derivations to Online Appendix C and focus on key properties and intuition.
Characterizing the Equilibrium Wage Offer Distribution
The proof of the main
existence and uniqueness result below establishes that the equilibrium can take four dis-
tinct shapes. We formally characterize these cases in the proof in Online Appendix C and
here describe the corresponding wage offer distributions (plotted in Figure 1 below).
The cases are ordered by how aggressively the cartel sets the wage ceiling w f , relative
to w. We denote by ψc and ψo the rate at which, respectively, cartel and outside firms make
offers to workers, and by Fc and Fo the corresponding distributions from which those offers
are drawn.9
Case I. All cartel firms offer all their jobs at w f . The outside firms offer jobs uniformly
distributed over (w f , wu] at a common rate.
The following condition guarantees that this is an equilibrium: w f ≤w + s(K −1)ψcc(1−
κ). This condition guarantees that the cartel members prefer paying the wage ceiling in-
stead of the reservation wage (or any wage in between) that comes with the additional
turnover from losing workers to other cartel employers posting at the mass point.
Case II. The cartel posts a mass of jobs at w f , but additionally posts uniformly distributed
wages at a common rate on [w, w1], with a gap such that w1 < w f . The outside firms post
uniformly distributed wages on (w f , wu] at a common rate, as in Case I.
9This notation and the following discussion impose that all firms of a type act symmetrically which is a
result we formally state in Proposition 1 below.
10

The following condition guarantees that this is an equilibrium: w + s(K −1)ψcc ≥
w f > w + s(K −1)ψcc(1 −κ). The second inequality simply states that we are not in Case
I, while the first states that the cartel prefers paying the ceiling over the reservation wage
if all cartel activity is below the ceiling.
It is easy to see why the equilibrium changes from Case I to II as w f rises sufficiently
far above w. In this case, posting wages below w f becomes attractive despite the strictly
larger turnover cost generated by the mass point above. Wages are uniform below w1
because firms trade off wages and retention in the usual fashion, which also gives rise
to uniformly distributed wage offers in the no-collusion equilibrium. As the cartel posts
these additional jobs below the ceiling, it pulls back on hiring from the mass point because
it would otherwise grow in size. Eventually, the gap closes and w1 →w f , while simul-
taneously the mass at w f vanishes. This is exactly where the first weak inequality above
holds with equality.
Case III. There is overlap in the wages posted by cartel members and outside employers.
Cartel members post uniformly and with uniform rate on [w, w1], while cartel members
and outside employers act identically on the next interval, all posting uniformly and with
identical rate on (w1, w f ]. Above w f , only outside employers post, again uniformly dis-
tributed and with the same rate. The rates across these three intervals generally differ (and
are presented in the Online Appendix). There is no longer mass at the wage ceiling but the
ceiling is still binding for the cartel.
The following condition guarantees that this is an equilibrium: w + s(M −1)ψcc ≥
w f > w + s(K −1)ψcc. The second inequality simply states that we are not in Case II.
If the first inequality does not hold, then there is a fourth case described in the Online
Appendix. We henceforth rule this case out, which can be done via a parameter restriction
that guarantees that the first inequality holds. The restriction is cumbersome, and we
describe it in the course of the proof of Proposition 1 below (see Assumption 1 and Lemma
C.12 in the Online Appendix). The restriction guarantees that employment in the cartel
does not contract too much as a result of the wage ceiling. We will see below that the
cartel suffers a cost disadvantage relative to the outside firms. The restriction is violated
if, due to their cost advantage, the outside firms drive the cartel largely out of the market.
In this scenario, the cartel can then satisfy its diminished employment demand by hiring
from only a small segment of the wage support [w1, w f ] with w1 > w. The assumption is
11

therefore more likely to be violated in settings where the production function is close to
linear.10
Figure 1 plots the wage offer distributions in these three cases, separately for the cartel
(Panel A) and the outside employers (Panel B).
Figure 1: Equilibrium Wage Offer Distributions for Cartel and Outside Firms
A. Cartel firms
B. Outside firms
Notes: Cumulative distribution function of posted wages for the cartel members in Panel A and outside firms
in Panel B for different values of the wage ceiling w f . The case with a low w f (Case I) is depicted in blue, with
a medium w f (Case II) in red, and with a high w f (Case III) in purple. The wage ceiling w f for each case is
depicted with the thin dashed vertical lines. See the main text for a description of the three cases.
Characterizing Equilibrium Employment
With these in hand, it is straightforward
to determine equilibrium employment. Optimal firm behavior requires that the user cost
is equated across all wages posted by a firm. In all three cases, cartel firms always post
jobs at the ceiling while the outsiders always post marginally above. For the outsiders, we
thus get that,
αxnα−1
o
= w f + c
 r + δ + s(M −K −1)ψo(1 −Fo(w f ))

(6)
This states that outsiders will choose a level of employment such that the marginal revenue
product of labor equals the user cost. The user cost is evaluated marginally above w f ,
10The reason we do not consider this last case is primarily that we have been unable to rule out equilibrium
multiplicity in that range. In the numerical exercises below, we consistently find that a profit-maximizing cartel
sets an optimal w f that falls into Case I, far from this fourth case that we do not consider.
12

reflecting that the cartel is bound by w f and hence never poaches anywhere above. The
r term reflects the cost of the initial hires in annuitized form while the δ term reflects
turnover to unemployment.
For the cartel, in turn,
αxnα−1
c
= w f + c

r + δ + s(M −K)ψo(1 −Fo(w f )) + s(K −1)ψcκ

Fc
 w f
 −Fc

w−
f

(7)
The only difference is in the turnover cost. Wage competition arises from M −K outsiders
and from K −1 cartel members that also post at w f .
Existence and Uniqueness
PROPOSITION 1. There exists a unique symmetric equilibrium with wage fixing.
Proof. See Online Appendix C.
In the course of proving the result, we establish that the equilibrium has one of the
three shapes that we discuss in the previous section. In addition, the proof establishes
several intermediate results, some of which we will discuss next, since they convey some
of the key economics of the framework with wage fixing.
Discussion of Additional Equilibrium Properties
No Mass
Lemma C.1 shows that a deviation argument rules out mass. Because this is a
granular setting, it rules out many firms posting at the same mass point, the reason being
that then one of these firms could post marginally higher pay with strictly lower turnover.
Importantly, this logic breaks with wage fixing, simply because multiple cartel members
might offer a mass of jobs at w f , which by definition shuts down any deviation to higher
pay.
No Gaps
Lemma C.2 establishes that, generally, there cannot be a gap in the support of
the wage offer distribution. The reason is simply that firms at the upper end of the gap
could otherwise lower pay with no increase in turnover. This logic, however, breaks below
a mass point. Here, the turnover rate discretely jumps below the mass due to a jump in the
13

rate at which strictly preferable outside offers arrive. Jointly with the logic sketched in the
previous paragraph, this leaves room for a gap in the distribution below the wage ceiling
w f .
This logic is readily observable in Cases I and II in figure 1. The only difference between
the two cases is that in Case I, the gap extends beyond w because the wage that comes with
user cost equal to that at w f is below w.
Identical User Cost
Lemma C.6 establishes that outside firms have identical user costs
and, which follows directly, the same level of employment. Lemma C.7 does the same for
the cartel.
To see why, suppose two outside firms have differing user costs. The firm with the
higher cost can always post a wage marginally above the highest wage posted by the
other firm. Since turnover is weakly lower at that point, the user cost differential vanishes
as the wage differential vanishes, a contradiction.
A similar logic applies within the cartel but with a difference: The logic we just ap-
pealed to does not apply at w f . It follows that any potential user cost differential across
cartel employers must arise from different mass at w f . Indeed, asymmetric cartels might
arise where one cartel employer posts plenty of jobs at w f and the other posts few. This
asymmetry results in a user cost differential because the small cartel member then has
more competition and higher turnover. But it is also smaller, and if the difference in user
cost equals the difference in marginal products, then this can be an equilibrium.
However, this is not a possibility if κ—the rate at which workers move when indifferent—
is sufficiently low. In that event, asymmetric wage posting will lead to small user cost
differentials that will not line up with the difference in marginal productivity implied by
the size difference. Assuming that κ is small, which seems natural, is thus sufficient to
establish that the cartel firms have identical user cost, too.11
3.2
The Consequences of Wage Fixing
We next formally characterize the impact of wage fixing on wages and profits for cartel and
outside firm employers. We then complement the formal results with additional numer-
11It is straightforward to construct asymmetric equilibria when they exist, following the discussion in the
previous two paragraphs.
14

ical observations that build on our quantitative model below. We summarize our formal
findings in the following proposition.
PROPOSITION 2. A) Cartel employers have lower employment, higher user cost, and lower
profits compared with outside employers. The impact of wage fixing on the average wage
is ambiguous.
B) A reduction in the wage ceiling w f reduces the user cost and increases profits for
outside employers. Its impact on cartel members’ user costs and profits is ambiguous.
Proof. See Online Appendix D.
The fact that the user cost of labor is higher for cartel members follows directly from
(6) and (7). The cartel piles up jobs at w f , and so turnover drops discretely right above,
where the outsiders post continuously distributed wages and hence have lower user cost.
Intuitively, the cartel ties its hands by committing to a ceiling w f . The outside firms operate
in the same labor market and are always free to exactly emulate the cartel; hence, they must
be weakly better off.
Cartel Stability
An immediate corollary of Part A is that cartel members might be
tempted to deviate and pay like an outside employer since profits are strictly larger. A
wage fixing scheme might thus appear fragile, requiring a form of enforcement, a com-
mon feature of settings with collusion (Asker and Nocke (2021)). We emphasize that a
granular market structure, such as we consider here, makes this less of a concern. A large
member, tempted to deviate, would recognize that even under a unilateral deviation, ag-
gregate competition would rise because the cartel’s size would shrink to K −1. That rise
in competition moderates the incentives to exit—the firm would be an outside firm in a
labor market with a cartel of size K −1, rather than a member of a cartel of size K. This
consideration might potentially undo any such temptation or at least dampen it, stabiliz-
ing the cartel. It is also strongest in markets that are concentrated, which suggests that
cartel activity might rise when concentration rises. We revisit this below numerically.
A more standard and complementary argument appeals to trigger strategies: suppose
a single deviation triggers deviation by all other members and hence reversion to the no-
collusion equilibrium. Then, the relevant comparison is cartel profits versus no-collusion
15

profits, not cartel profits versus outsider profits. As we show numerically below, cartel
profits can exceed no-collusion profits even when outsider profits exceed cartel profits, so
standard trigger strategies would naturally sustain the cartel.12
Misallocation
We highlight that wage fixing leads to misallocation. Part A of the propo-
sition shows that cartel members have a higher user cost than outside firms. As a con-
sequence, they have lower employment than outside firms because all firms optimally
equate the marginal revenue product of labor to the user cost. Given identical decreasing
returns to scale technology, this results in misallocation, constituting an aggregate down-
side of wage-fixing agreements.
Wage Impact
The final part of part A implies that it might actually be possible for equi-
librium wages to rise when a cartel fixes wages. This case may arise for moderate wage
ceilings because a cartel that posts a mass of identical pay reduces not only competition
but also turnover. The gains from the reduction in turnover are shared with workers when
the wage ceiling is sufficiently high. We discuss this in more detail at the end of section
3.3.
Is it rational to form a cartel?
It follows from part B of the proposition that, while
outside employers strictly benefit from the introduction of the cartel, the impact on profits
of the cartel firms is ambiguous. One might expect that the cartel enjoys higher profits due
to lower turnover from internal and external competition. This need not be the case due to
competition from the outside employers that can free-ride on the cartel. In response to the
fall in their user cost, these outside employers increase hiring and expand in size, which
drives up competition and turnover for the cartel. Whether it is collectively rational to
form a cartel thus depends on the response of the outside firms.
It follows that cartels are more likely to arise in settings where the competitive push-
back from the remaining employers is less powerful. This is the case, for instance, when
the production function features a lot of curvature (low α). By contrast, when it is close to
linear, the outside firms aggressively expand in response to their falling user cost, driving
12Standard patience and monitoring requirements for these arguments are irrelevant in our continuous time
setting where a deviation can immediately be detected and transition to the new equilibrium can happen instan-
taneously given the linear hiring technology.
16

out the cartel. On the flip side, this means that whenever a cartel does emerge in settings
where the span of control is large, it needs to be large to be profitable, muting the compet-
itive response of the outside employers. We discuss other market features which are key
for the response of the outsiders and hence the profitability of a cartel below.
Whistle-blowing
Finally, it follows from the second part of the proposition that we
should not expect any “whistle-blowing” from the outside employers, since they unam-
biguously benefit from the formation and existence of a cartel.
3.3
The Optimal Wage Ceiling w f
So far, we treated the wage ceiling w f as exogenous. It is then natural to consider the
optimal w f from the perspective of the cartel firms. One might suspect that the profit
maximizing w f equals the lowest possible wage, namely w. This, however, is not generally
the case.
Instead, there are two opposing forces. First, by reducing the wage w f , there is a direct
reduction in the user cost of labor. However, a tighter ceiling also benefits the outside
employers, who respond by expanding employment, driving up competition.
This section first studies this situation formally in a simplified case and then offers
complementary numerical observations from the quantitative model.
A Simplified Analytical Case
We next show analytically that the tradeoff between the cartel’s costs and external compe-
tition naturally leads to an interior w f that lies above w. In this sense, a wage fixing cartel
does not optimally suppress wages “all the way”.13
We make analytical progress in the simplified case where the search efficiency of the
employed equals that of the unemployed, s = 1. Since we are interested in understanding
why a cartel would optimally choose w f > w we focus on Cases I and II. These are the
cases with a relatively tight wage ceiling (Case I also endogenously emerges when we
calibrate the model below).
13Of course, if the cartel includes all employers, K = M, then the optimal wage ceiling is trivially just w. The
following arguments thus apply when K < M.
17

As shown above, in these cases, the outside firms post wages uniformly from w f to
wu. Their user cost hence is ωo ≡w f + (r + δ + (M −K −1)ψo)cOptimal hiring implies
xαnα−1
o
= ωo, and so flow balance implies

1 −(M −K)

xα
ωo

1
1−α 
ψo = δ

xα
ωo

1
1−α . We
can use this to obtain a simple (implicit) expression for ωo in terms of w f ,
ωo = w f + (r + δ)c + (M −K −1)
δ

xα
ωo

1
1−α
1 −(M −K)

xα
ωo

1
1−α
c.
(8)
The left (right) hand side is increasing (decreasing) in ωo, which implies that ωo is strictly
increasing in w f . We can therefore think of the cartel as directly minimizing its own user
cost via ωo.14 Assuming that κ →0, the user cost for the cartel members is
ωc(ωo) ≡w f (ωo) + (r + δ + (M −K)ψo(ωo))c = ωo + δ

xα
ωo

1
1−α
1 −(M −K)

xα
ωo

1
1−α
c.
(9)
hence
ω′
c(ωo)
=
1 −
1
1 −α
cδ
ωo
  ωo
xα

1
1−α
  ωo
xα

1
1−α −(M −K)
2 .
(10)
The fact that the derivative is less than one reflects that the firms outside the cartel
benefit disproportionately from wage fixing. The second term captures the added turnover
for the cartel relative to the outside employers. It is this second term that prevents the
cartel from generically fixing the wage at its lowest possible value. A low wage ceiling
leads outside employers to increase employment, disproportionately increasing turnover
at the cartel firms.
To see this most directly, consider what happens when the cartel acts so aggressively
that the user cost of the outsiders falls towards xα(M −K)1−α. From (9), the outsiders
then employ all the workers in the labor market, implying infinitely fast turnover and an
infinitely high user cost for the cartel—which cannot be optimal. For slightly higher user
costs, the derivative of the cartel’s user cost with respect to that of the outside firms is neg-
14In doing so, the cartel is of course (implicitly) constrained by the reservation wage wr and an upper bound
on the user cost corresponding to the equilibrium without collusion.
18

ative, as can be seen from (10). The offsetting competition from outsiders hence restrains
the cartel. The derivative turns positive for sufficiently high ωo. It is further straightfor-
ward to verify that the second derivative is strictly positive. It follows that there exists a
unique value for ωo that minimizes the cartel’s user cost ωc. Since (9) is independent of the
reservation wage wr, it also follows that there always exists a sufficiently low reservation
wage such that the optimal wage ceiling is indeed above the reservation wage.
Finally, a special case worth noting is the one where there is a single outside firm,
K = M −1. In this case the cartel posts only at w f and the outsider posts a mass marginally
above, so the wage distribution is effectively degenerate at w f . But this may mask that
the sole outsider still exerts considerable competitive pressure on the cartel which in turn
optimally keeps w f > w. Only when K = M does competition fully collapse.15
Forces shaping the optimal w f
To further unpack the forces determining the optimal
wage ceiling w f , use that (10) equals zero at the optimum. Use that the level of employ-
ment at outside firms, no, equals

xα
ωo

1
1−α to get that, at the optimum,
w f
c
=
ψo

1
1 −α
1
1 −(M −K)no
−(M −K −1)

−(r + δ).
(11)
This is a measure of how aggressively the cartel optimally sets the wage ceiling w f that is
useful in understanding the forces at play.
A large value of the span of control α means that outsiders increase employment more
in response to a fall in their user cost which yields a higher optimal wage ceiling. 1 −(M −
K)no, on the other hand, is where the outsiders as a whole source their employment from.
If this is small then any increase in labor demand by outsiders drives up turnover in the
cartel more sharply, again yielding a higher optimal wage ceiling. These observations an-
ticipate an important quantitative result below: cartels act much more aggressively when
the labor market has slack or when the span of control is small.16
15Technically, with K = M −1, the single outside firm does not have a well-defined strategy because (w f , ∞)
has no minimal element. It is simple to fix this, for instance by assuming that κ declines over a small interval ∆
such that the optimal offer is w f + ∆.
16The corresponding expression for the general case with s ≤1 is
w f
c
=
ψo

1
1 −α
1 −(1 −s)Knc
1 −(1 −s)Knc −(M −K)no
−(M −K −1)

−(r + δ).
19

Numerical Observations on the Impact of w f
We complement these results with qualitative numerical observations that build on the
calibrated model; we revisit these in the next section.
Profits
Figure 2 depicts the profits of cartel members and outside firms as we move the
wage ceiling w f and the size of the cartel K. The black solid line indicates profits when
there is no cartel.
The two kinks are where the equilibrium moves from Case I to II and then III, as w f
is relaxed.17 We focus our discussion primarily on Case I. This is because it follows from
Panel A that the profit maximizing w f corresponds to this case.
In addition, it follows from the same panel that the profit maximizing wage ceiling is
generally strictly above w, as we have shown formally for the simplified setting above.
The reason is the strong spillovers to the outside firms, whose employment response dis-
ciplines the cartel. Ultimately, as K →M, we have that w f →w, but in general, this is not
the case.
We note that profits are generally increasing in the size of the cartel, both for cartel
employers and outsiders. In turn, the profit-maximizing wage ceiling is not monotonically
related to the size of the cartel. Finally, we depict a case in which the cartel is sufficiently
small (K = 4) such that profits are strictly below the no-collusion benchmark.
Both panels jointly also clarify that cartel employers, even if the cartel is profitable,
should be tempted to leave the cartel because the outsiders fare even better. It further
demonstrates that this temptation is muted in a granular setting. A firm leaving the cartel
would recognize that the remaining group would be less powerful, resulting in a discrete
reduction in profits at outside employers as well.
Wages
Panel A in Figure 4 plots mean wages, which are normalized to one without
collusion. We plot them against the wage ceiling w f and again for different cartel sizes K.
The two sets of kinks again indicate the transition from Case I to II and then III. We again
focus on Case I.
This follows exactly the same logic but has a generalized expression for labor market slack which takes into
account that the employed search with lower efficiency.
17The three cases are more easily visually discerned in Figure 3 since, as can be seen there, Case II only arises
for a small range of w f .
20

Figure 2: Profits
A. Cartel firms
B. Outside firms
Notes: Firms within the cartel in panel A and outside firms in panel B. The solid black line gives profits without
collusion. Model is solved numerically for the baseline calibration in section 4.
In Case I, mean wages monotonically fall as the ceiling tightens. They decline as the
cartel grows, given w f . We note that, for wage ceilings w f above one and in Case I, a seem-
ingly paradoxical result obtains. Both mean wages (Figure 3) and profits (Figure 2, both
panels) are higher than they are under the baseline when the cartel is large enough to be
profitable (K = 7 and K = 8). The reason this happens is that competition is inefficient
in this setting because it induces costly worker turnover. The paradoxical case occurs be-
cause turnover is much reduced when the cartel firms all post a mass of identical offers and
workers transition with sufficiently low probability when receiving an offer with identical
pay. If the wage ceiling is sufficiently moderate, then the gains from the drop in turnover
brought about by the cartel are shared by both workers and employers. This, however, is
not the case here when the cartel optimally sets w f , which clearly harms workers.
4
Quantitative Evaluation
This section offers a quantification of the wage impact of wage-fixing cartels. We begin
by extending the model for quantitative purposes. The technical details of the parts that
follow Gottfries and Jarosch (2026) are relegated to Appendix B.
First, we add capital and assume that production is CES with an elasticity of substi-
tution σ between labor and capital. The reason for this extension is as follows: Cartels
21

Figure 3: Mean Wages
Notes: The figure presents the mean wage for different numbers of cartel members. The solid straight black line
gives the mean wage without collusion. The parameters are those underlying the baseline calibration in section
4.
ultimately lead to cost savings for both the cartel and the outside employers. As discussed
previously, if the outsiders’ response is highly elastic, this restrains the cartel and limits
its scope for wage suppression. Anything that mutes the response, therefore increases the
harm wage fixing does to workers.
In many empirically relevant settings, such as those covering the US food processing
industry, labor is arguably a strong complement to other factors of production, in partic-
ular capital and intermediates. This should mute the outside employers’ labor demand
response to a falling user cost of labor. This is a first order issue for quantitative consider-
ation, and the extension allows us to account for it.
Second, we allow for product market power by micro-founding an iso-elastic market-
level inverse demand function,
p = ¯Q
1
η
 
∑
j
yj
!−1
η
.
(12)
This extension allows us to investigate how collusion in the labor and the product market
interacts.
22

Finally, recall that, up to this point, we have assumed that the minimum wage binds.
In this section, we drop this assumption which implies that the reservation wage is the
lowest wage which then endogenously responds to cartel activity.
4.1
Conduct in the Product Market
We entertain three different forms of conduct in the product market. In all formulations,
we consider a Nash equilibrium where each firm treats its competitors’ choices as fixed
when making its own decisions. Firms, as before, decide on a contact rate ψi and a wage
offer distribution Fi. They also decide on output yi, which now depends on both employ-
ment and capital. The three different forms of conduct will result in three distinct expres-
sions for the marginal revenue product of labor at firm i, mi. Denote by dyi
dni the marginal
product of labor at firm i.
Conduct I: Strategic.
We first consider the case in Gottfries and Jarosch (2026) in which
firms internalize their price impact. In this case, the marginal revenue product in equations
(6) and (7) takes the following form
mi = dyi
dni
× p
 
1 −1
η
yi
∑j yj
!
.
(13)
This will be our baseline scenario.
Conduct II: Nonstrategic.
We next consider the case where firms treat the output price
as exogenous. This case is similar to the theoretical exposition above where we assumed
that the output price is fixed, corresponding to an infinite price elasticity of demand. The
difference here is that we actually do allow for a finite price elasticity, but firms do not
internalize their price impact.
The reason this setting is worth considering is that it might capture cases where there
are many symmetric labor markets that are all in the same product market. With the
boundaries of the product market being much wider than those of the labor market, any
local employer would not perceive a price impact of their actions although, collectively
across all employers, there would be such a price impact. In this case, the marginal revenue
23

product takes the following form,
mi = dyi
dni
× p.
(14)
Conduct III: Collusion in the product market.
As a third alternative, we consider
the case where collusion extends to the product market. The collective revenue of the
cartel is given by p ∑j∈C yj. In this third case, the “marginal” revenue for cartel firm i is
mi = dyi
dni
× p
 
1 −1
η
∑j∈C yj
∑j yj
!
.
(15)
To understand this expression, compare it with (13). There, the firm recognizes that ex-
panding employment leads to an adverse price effect that reduces its own revenue. Equa-
tion (15) is simply the counterpart where the firm recognizes that the adverse price effect
reduces revenue everywhere in the cartel. Of course, the firms outside the cartel continue
to act according to (13).
4.2
Calibration
The type of cartels we study in this paper naturally operate in the shadows. As such,
it is hard to offer a standard quantitative macro exercise that aims to gauge the wage
losses caused by such practices. We therefore proceed as follows. Wherever possible,
we calibrate the model using an approach similar to that in Gottfries and Jarosch (2026),
targeting standard empirical moments for the US labor market under the assumption that
there is no collusion. The baseline calibration can thus be viewed as a “representative” US
labor market.
We then introduce a cartel of the size that has been operative in the US poultry industry
and re-compute the labor market equilibrium. We then repeat this exercise for a wide
range of modifications to the baseline calibration. The aim is to get a ballpark estimate for
the wage consequences of wage fixing and to understand how this estimate depends on
various market features.
The discount rate r is set to match an annual discount rate of 5%. The curvature of the
production function is set to α = .64, in line with the estimates of Cooper et al. (2007) and
Cooper et al. (2015). The average wage is normalized to one via b. The hiring cost c equals
24

Table 1: Baseline Parameters
Value
Reason / Moment
Model
Target
r
0.004
Annual discount rate
0.05
0.05
δ
0.016
Unemployment rate
0.06
0.06
s
0.581
E-to-E rate
0.025
0.025
x
0.753
U-to-E rate
0.25
0.25
c
1
Hiring costs / Monthly pay
1
1
b
0.825
Normalization (wage)
1
1
¯Q
1.659
Normalization (price)
1
1
α
0.64
Cooper et al. (2007, 2015)
—
—
η
1.3
Edmond et al. (2023)
—
—
M
10
HHI
1000
≈1000
Notes: Monthly calibration. The rationale and source for each targeted moment are explained in the main text.
one month of wages, in line with Manning (2011). We set the elasticity of industry demand,
η, to 1.3, which is in the middle of the range given in Edmond et al. (2023) and comparable
to De Loecker et al. (2021). The probability of a move between cartel employers when pay
is the same is set to κ = 0.01, small but non-zero. There are M = 10 identical firms within
a labor market to rationalize a Herfindahl-Hirschman index (HHI) of approximately 1000
(Berger et al., 2022; Jarosch et al., 2024).
In each calibration, we pick the common level of productivity x to match a monthly job
finding rate of 25%, in line with the Current Population Survey “gross flows” data. We set
the exogenous separation rate δ so that the unemployment rate is 6% given the targeted
job finding rate of 25%. We pick the relative search efficiency s to rationalize a job-to-job
rate of 2.5% in a large labor market, in line with Fujita et al. (2024). The baseline calibration
is summarized in Table 1.
We target these moments under the assumption that there is no cartel and then study
the impact of collusion by increasing K from zero to a setting in which the cartel controls
approximately 80% of employment under collusion, in line with the DOJ complaint against
the poultry industry (DOJ Antitrust Division, 2023). We therefore pick K = 8. When we
introduce the cartel, we always set w f to its profit-maximizing level.
25

Table 2: Impact of collusion
Baseline
CES
α = 0.85
η = 1.1
u = 0.04
u = 0.1
Emp. share
0.797
0.799
0.796
0.798
0.797
0.796
no/nc
1.018
1.007
1.026
1.013
1.018
1.023
(w f −wr)/(wu −wr)
0.622
0.226
0.694
0.663
0.876
−0.078
d log(∑i ni)
0.048
0.052
0.041
0.039
0.025
0.09
d log(E[w])
−0.027
−0.082
−0.017
−0.022
−0.007
−0.068
d log(wo)
−0.026
−0.081
−0.017
−0.021
−0.006
−0.067
d log(E[ω])
−0.041
−0.091
−0.033
−0.037
−0.022
−0.077
d log(ωo)
−0.047
−0.1
−0.037
−0.041
−0.028
−0.085
Results based on an equilibrium with wage fixing and K = 8 versus an equilibrium without collusion. Details
are in main text. o and c index outside and cartel employers.
4.3
Quantitative Results
Table 2 compares wages and user costs in an equilibrium without collusion with their
counterparts in an equilibrium with wage fixing. The first column reports our baseline
results. The additional columns then modify an assumption, recalibrate, and redo the ex-
ercise. We first discuss the baseline and then describe the remaining columns. All columns
correspond to product market conduct I, and this is then varied in the next table.
Baseline Results.
A cartel that covers approximately 80% of employment and picks the
profit-maximizing wage as its ceiling generates wage losses of approximately 2.7%. There
are strong spillovers, with wages falling almost as much for the (few) outside employers,
as can be inferred from the fifth row. The user cost (sixth row) is even more depressed
than wages because the cartel creates lower turnover. This is more pronounced among
the outside employers (seventh row), which indicates that these are actually the primary
beneficiaries of the cartel, as we discussed above.
We also note that the cartel firms are almost as large as the outside employers (second
row). The outsiders are just 1.8% larger than the cartel firms, which correspondingly con-
trol almost 80% of employment. This indicates that the labor misallocation induced by
the cartel is limited. The third row shows how tight the profit-maximizing wage ceiling
is. In line with the discussion above, the outside competition moderates the cartel, which
sets w f far above the (initial) reservation wage wr and, in fact, closer to the (initial) highest
26

wage wu.
Lastly, consider the impact on unemployment or, equivalently, the employment rate
(fourth row). Wage fixing reduces the user cost of labor for all firms which increases ag-
gregate labor demand. The effect is substantial, with the employment rate increasing by
4.8% when the cartel is active. To understand the magnitude of this, it is useful to consider
the market level elasticity of employment demand. Using that, according to table 2, the
user cost gains from wage fixing is similar across firms, we can approximate the market
level (un)employment response as follows,
d ln(∑
j
nj)
≈∑
i
ni
∑j nj
d log(ωi) × d log (ni)
d log (ωi)
≈
d log(E[ω]) ×
1
1 −α η−1
η
≈0.048.
This approximation is close to the exact results in table 2 which (additionally) captures the
heterogeneity in user costs across firms. The second line shows that the span of control α
and the demand elasticity η govern the market level employment response to a fall in the
user cost.
CES production function.
The next column shows that the wage losses can quickly
rise to a much higher level when the cost share of labor is low and complementarities
between factors are strong. Here, we use the CES production extension discussed in the
previous subsection, with an elasticity of substitution σ = .5 and a weight on labor θ such
that the wage bill relative to overall factor payments is just 10%.
In this case, the wage losses triple: The cartel can adopt a more aggressive wage ceil-
ing (third row) because the low cost share and the complementarities mute the outsiders’
employment response to a fall in the user cost of labor.
Larger span of control.
Column three looks at the same forces from a different angle.
It shows that if the span of control is larger than in the baseline, then the wage losses from
optimal wage fixing are smaller. Again, the reason is the discipline imposed by the outside
employers, which is stronger if these can aggressively scale up when costs fall. This is the
case when the span of control is large (high α).
27

Product Demand
The next column lowers the elasticity of market-level product de-
mand from 1.3 (baseline) to 1.1. Here, the wage losses from wage fixing fall. To see why,
note that costs are increasingly passed through into prices when demand is less elastic.
This makes the cost reduction from wage fixing less profitable and acts as a constraint on
the cartel. Additionally, the cost advantage of the outsiders, which drives the cartel out of
the market, becomes increasingly detrimental.
Local unemployment
The last two columns consider a decrease (an increase) in the
local unemployment rate from its baseline level of 6%. We maintain all other calibration
targets at the levels described above and move the unemployment target to 4% and 10%,
respectively. The results show that wage-fixing cartels do far more damage when the labor
market has slack and competition is loose. In turn, when competition is fierce and wages
are high, a cartel has little room to constrain pay. Starkly, even with a 10% unemployment
rate, the moderating force from the outside competition vanishes to the point where the
cartel optimally sets the wage ceiling below the (pre-cartel) reservation wage. This leads
to wage losses that are more than double those in the baseline scenario.
It is instructive to revisit mean wages as a function of w f , which we now plot for the
baseline, as well as the high and low unemployment setting, in Panel A of Figure 4. We
also indicate the profit-maximizing w f (horizontal lines) as well as, implicitly, the support
for w f that begins at wr, the value of which depends on the case. The figure shows that
variation in wage losses across the three settings is driven by differences in the profit-
maximizing ceiling. With slack, the cartel optimally sets the wage ceiling at reservation.
With a tight labor market, it has little room and sets the wage ceiling far higher.
To further unpack this, panel B plots the relative user cost between outside and car-
tel employers. It shows that the cost differential is mild before starting to sharply drop
off at some point, with the outsiders gaining substantial cost advantages when the cartel
becomes too aggressive. The cartel then optimally picks a wage ceiling right above this
point. The tighter the labor market, the earlier this point is reached. With sufficient slack,
this point is never reached, and the cartel then sets w f = wr.
Together, these exercises show that cartel activity in our baseline setting causes rela-
tively modest harm to workers. When the cartel is less constrained by competition, how-
ever, this changes quickly, and the harm caused to workers can be large.
28

Figure 4: Wages and Relative User Cost
A. Mean wage
B. Relative cost
Notes: The figure presents the mean wage for the different calibrations as a function of the wage ceiling w f . The
vertical lines indicate the cartel’s profit-maximizing level of w f . The solid straight black line gives the mean
wage without collusion. The parameters are those underlying the baseline calibration in Table 2.
The Role of Product Market Conduct
Table 3 investigates the role of product market conduct for the labor market consequences
of an employer cartel. We consider the three different types of conduct laid out in Section
4.1, with Conduct I referring to the baseline results we have already discussed. Table
3 contrasts these with Conduct II (Nonstrategic) and Conduct III, where the cartel also
colludes in the product market. As before, we recalibrate to meet the calibration targets
under the three different settings (but we keep the number of cartel members fixed at
K = 8).
A downward sloping product demand curve generally limits the value of wage fixing.
The lower user cost of labor is partially passed through to consumers via a lower product
price. Furthermore, as already described, wage fixing benefits the outside firms, whose
labor demand response both drives up wages and drives down the output price. This re-
sponse, however, is somewhat muted when everyone, including the outsiders, is strategic
in the product market. Hence, we expect the wage gains from eliminating a cartel to be a
little larger in the strategic case.
Comparing columns one and two shows that these additional considerations are quan-
titatively negligible, since the effects of removing the cartel are indistinguishable across the
two cases. This changes, however, if the cartel also actively colludes in the product market,
29

Table 3: Product market conduct
Strategic (I)
Price takers (II)
Collusion (III)
Emp. share
0.797
0.797
0.497
no/nc
1.018
1.021
4.043
(w f −wr)/(wu −wr)
0.622
0.622
0.406
d log(∑i ni)
0.048
0.048
0.043
d log(E[w])
−0.027
−0.027
−0.029
d log(wo)
−0.026
−0.026
−0.026
d log(E[ω])
−0.041
−0.041
−0.034
d log(ωo)
−0.047
−0.047
−0.04
Counterfactual results based on recalculating the equilibrium without collusion for the three different forms of
conduct in the product market introduced in section 4.1. o and c index outside and cartel employers.
as shown in the last column.
In this case, the cartel strongly cuts back on employment and output, to the point where
employment at each of the two outside employers is over four times larger than that at a
cartel firm (second row). Correspondingly, the cartel employs less than 50% of the total
workforce. Despite this, removing the cartel results in market-wide wage gains that are
even larger when compared with the baseline in which the cartel employs 80% of the total
workforce. This demonstrates a strong interaction between collusion in the product and
labor markets. When wage-fixing employers collude in the product market as well, they
suppress wages and employment more aggressively because the desired markup in the
product market is far larger when the cartel acts as a block there as well.
5
Gauging Harm in Practice
The above calculations accurately report the harm caused by a cartel according to the
model, given model primitives. But, of course, they require fully solving the model and
then solving for a counterfactual which, while straightforward, is time-consuming and
requires some coding expertise.
This section therefore offers a simple way to gauge the (wage) harm caused by a cartel
in the spirit of a sufficient statistic. The aim is to express harm in terms of easily observable
endogenous quantities along with several exogenous primitives.
30

We first cover the simplest case, in which the cartel covers most of the market, K ≥
M −1. Worker harm H is defined by mean wages with the cartel relative to mean wages
without it. Online Appendix E shows that this can be expressed as
H = M −1
M
 s ¯N
1 −¯N −log
1 −(1 −s) ¯N
1 −¯N
 1 −(1 −s) ¯N
s ¯N
δc −(w f −wr)
where ¯N ≡∑j nj denotes the total level of employment without collusion.
Starting with the first term, one needs to know the number of employers in the market
M. Online Appendix E.1 shows how the relative search efficiency of the employed s can
be constructed from data on worker flows between firms.
The next input required is ¯N which is counterfactual. The results for the change in the
unemployment rate reported in table 2 suggest that ¯N is typically around 5 percent lower
than the actual employment rate under the cartel.18 The average rate of job loss δ and the
hiring cost c can be determined in a case-specific fashion based on industry characteristics.
w f and wr remain. We presume that, whenever a wage fixing cartel is discovered in
practice, information on w f is revealed. wr, in turn, is well approximated via the minimum
wage, in particular in the United States.19
When K ≥M −1 this is exact. It also works well for our baseline calibration where we
have K = 8, M = 10, ¯N = .94, s = 0.58, δ = 0.016, and c = 1E[w]K=0. For K = 8 and the
profit-maximizing w f , we have w f −wr ≈0.081. Plugging in, this gives H ≈0.0269, in
line with the 2.7 log points reported in Table 2, Column 1.
The above equation is for large cartels. The following expressions cover the general
case where K < M −1,
E[w]K=0
=
wr + M −1
M
 s ¯N
1 −¯N −log
1 −(1 −s) ¯N
1 −¯N
 1 −(1 −s) ¯N
s ¯N
δc,
E[w]K>0
=
w f + M −K −1
M −K
N −Nc
N
1 −(1 −s)N
1 −N + sNc
−1 −(1 −s)N
s(N −Nc)
log
1 −(1 −s)N
1 −N + sNc

δc.
In addition to the above, these require knowledge of the number of cartel firms K, total em-
ployment by the cartel Nc, and overall employment N (while the cartel is active). Plugging
in the values corresponding to our quantitative baseline calibration recovers the results we
18Harm is increasing in ¯N so a conservative estimate applies a large value for the employment losses when a
cartel is removed.
19In high wage sectors, the lowest pay in markets unaffected by the cartel can be used to measure wr.
31

compute above where we fully solve the model.
These equations are useful to practitioners because they allow to calculate the harm
created by a wage fixing cartel, according to our model, without having to solve the model.
Instead, they only require information that can relatively straightforwardly be obtained on
a case-by-case basis.
6
Conclusion
We model and analyze wage fixing cartels in a canonical dynamic monopsony environ-
ment with large firms. Wage fixing depresses labor market competition and employers
outside the cartel benefit from it, even disproportionately. It follows that competition by
outside employers curbs a wage fixing cartel. Cartels are thus more likely to arise, be sta-
ble, and do substantial damage where the competitive response from outsiders is limited
either due to technological reasons, product market conduct, or because of the local mar-
ket structure. These observations can guide future research, in particular empirical work,
on wage fixing in the labor market.
References
Aresu, Alessio, Dominik Erharter, and Dominik Renner-Loquenz, “Antitrust in Labour
Markets,” European Commission Competition Policy Brief, May 2024.
Asker, John and Volker Nocke, “Collusion, Mergers, and Related Antitrust Issues,” Work-
ing Paper 29175, National Bureau of Economic Research August 2021.
Bello, Salvatore Lo and Lorenzo Pesaresi, “The Concentration Channel of the Minimum
Wage,” mimeo, 2025.
Berger, David, Kyle Herkenhoff, and Simon Mongey, “Labor Market Power,” American
Economic Review, April 2022, 112 (4), 1147–93.
Bilal, Adrien and Hugo Lhuillier, “Outsourcing, Inequality and Aggregate Output,”
2025.
, Niklas Engbom, Simon Mongey, and Giovanni L Violante, “Firm and worker dy-
namics in a frictional labor market,” Econometrica, 2022, 90 (4), 1425–1462.
32

Bisceglia, Michele, “Labor Market Power and Collusive Behavior,” Available at SSRN
4999795, 2024.
Burdett, Kenneth and Dale Mortensen, “Wage Differentials, Employer Size, and Unem-
ployment,” International Economic Review, 1998, 39 (2), 257–73.
Card, David, Ana Rute Cardoso, Jörg Heining, and Patrick Kline, “Firms and labor mar-
ket inequality: Evidence and some theory,” Journal of Labor Economics, 2018, 36 (S1),
S13–S70.
Cooper, Russell, John Haltiwanger, and Jonathan L Willis, “Search frictions: Matching
aggregate and establishment observations,” Journal of Monetary Economics, 2007, 54, 56–
78.
,
, and
, “Dynamics of labor demand: Evidence from plant-level observations and
aggregate implications,” Research in Economics, 2015, 69 (1), 37–50.
Delabastita, Vincent and Michael Rubens, “Colluding Against Workers,” Journal of Polit-
ical Economy, Forthcoming, 2024.
DOJ Antitrust Division, “United States v. Cargill Meat Solutions Corp., et al.; Proposed
Final Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement,” Federal Register, May 2023, 88 (101),
34030–34063.
DOJ, Antitrust Division and FTC, “Antitrust Guidance for Human Resource Profession-
als,” October 2016.
Edmond, Chris, Virgiliu Midrigan, and Daniel Yi Xu, “How costly are markups?,” Jour-
nal of Political Economy, 2023, 131 (7), 1619–1675.
Elsby, Michael WL and Axel Gottfries, “Firm dynamics, on-the-job search, and labor mar-
ket fluctuations,” The Review of Economic Studies, 2022, 89 (3), 1370–1419.
Engbom, Niklas and Christian Moser, “Earnings inequality and the minimum wage: Ev-
idence from Brazil,” American Economic Review, 2022, 112 (12), 3803–3847.
, Aniket Baksy, and Daniele Carattelli, “The Long-Term Decline of the U.S. Job Lad-
der,” 2026.
Fujita, Shigeru, Giuseppe Moscarini, and Fabien Postel-Vinay, “Measuring Employer-
to-Employer Reallocation,” American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics, 2024, 16 (3), 1–
51.
Gottfries, Axel and Gregor Jarosch, “Dynamic Monopsony with Granular Firms,” mimeo,
2026.
33

Gouin-Bonenfant, Émilien, “Productivity Dispersion, Between-Firm Competition, and
the Labor Share,” Econometrica, 2022, 90 (6), 2755–2793.
Heise, Sebastian and Tommaso Porzio, “Labor misallocation across firms and regions,”
Technical Report, National Bureau of Economic Research 2023.
Jarosch, Gregor, Jan Sebastian Nimczik, and Isaac Sorkin, “Granular Search, Market
Structure, and Wages,” The Review of Economic Studies, 01 2024, p. rdae004.
Joint Nordic Report, “Competition and Labour Markets,” 2024.
Kariel, Joel, Jakob Schneebacher, and Mike Walker, “Competition policy and labour
market power: New evidence and open questions,” mimeo, 2024.
Lentz, Rasmus and Dale T Mortensen, “Labor Market Friction, Firm Heterogeneity, and
Aggregate Employment and Productivity,” mimeo, 2022.
Lhuillier, Hugo, “The Local Root of Wage Inequality,” 2025.
Loecker, Jan De, Jan Eeckhout, and Simon Mongey, “Quantifying market power and
business dynamism in the macroeconomy,” mimeo, 2021.
Manning, Alan, “Chapter 11 - Imperfect Competition in the Labor Market,” in David Card
and Orley Ashenfelter, eds., David Card and Orley Ashenfelter, eds., Vol. 4 of Handbook of
Labor Economics, Elsevier, 2011, pp. 973 – 1041.
, “Monopsony in Labor Markets: A Review,” ILR Review, 2021, 74 (1), 3–26.
Marshall, Robert C and Leslie M Marx, The economics of collusion: Cartels and bidding rings,
Mit Press, 2012.
Martins, Pedro S and Jonathan P Thomas, “Employer Collusion and Employee Training,”
mimeo, 2023.
Robinson, Joan, The economics of imperfect competition, Macmillan, 1933.
Scarcella,
Mike,
“Cargill,
Hormel
latest
to
settle
US
workers’
wage-
fixing
lawsuit,”
Reuters,
https://www.reuters.com/legal/litigation/
cargill-hormel-latest-settle-us-workers-wage-fixing-lawsuit-2024-09-09/
September 2024.
,
“Latest
poultry
workers’
antitrust
settlements
push
total
to
$217
million,”
Reuters,
https://www.reuters.com/legal/litigation/
latest-poultry-workers-antitrust-settlements-push-total-217-million-2024-04-02/
April 2024.
Sharma, Garima, “Collusion Among Employers in India,” mimeo, 2024.
34

The President, “Promoting Competition in the American Economy,” Federal Register, July
2021, 86 (132), 36987–36999.
United
States
v.
Jindal,
https://www.justice.gov/archives/opa/pr/
former-owner-health-care-staffing-company-indicted-wage-fixing 2020.
United
States
v.
Manahe,
https://www.justice.gov/archives/opa/pr/
four-individuals-indicted-wage-fixing-and-labor-market-allocation-charges
2022.
U.S.
v.
Ryan
Hee
and
VDA
OC,
LLC,
formerly
Advan-
tage
on
Call,
LLC,
https://www.justice.gov/atr/case/
us-v-ryan-hee-and-vda-oc-llc-formerly-advantage-call-llc 2021.
APPENDIX
A
Equilibrium without collusion
A.1
Firm optimality conditions
Firm optimality, as in Gottfries and Jarosch (2026), implies that the user cost of labor must
be equated across all wages offered by a firm. Second, the marginal revenue cost of labor
must equal its user cost. Formally,
ˆ ∞
w
 
w −c∑
j̸=i
sψj ˆFj (w) −min
˜w≥w{ ˜w −c∑
j̸=i
sψj ˆFj ( ˜w)}
!
dGi(w) = 0,
(16)
and
αxnα−1
i
= min
w≥w
(
w + c
 
r + δ + ∑
j̸=i
sψj
 1 −ˆFj (w)

!)
.
(17)
A.2
Equilibrium Characterization
The equilibrium in this case is a special case of Gottfries and Jarosch (2026). There, we
assume firms are strategic about an endogenous output price. Here, we instead assume
that demand is perfectly elastic so that firms take a fixed output price as given.
35

The unique equilibrium then takes the following form. All M firms post a mix of wage
offers uniformly on [w, wu],
F(w) = w −w
wu −w,
(18)
where wu denotes the highest wage posted. Workers contact a firm at endogenous rate ψ,
and the highest wage solves
wu = w + sψ(M −1)c.
(19)
This implies that the user cost of labor is equated across and within firms. The reservation
wage is given by
wr = b + (1−s)c

1 −1
M
 
Mψ −r + δ
s
log
r + δ + sMψ
r + δ

+ (1−s)Mψ
w −wr
r + δ + sMψ.
(20)
Because the marginal revenue product equals the user cost of labor under optimal hiring,
the contact rate ψ satisfies
αx

ψ
δ + Mψ
α−1
=
w + (r + δ + s(M −1)ψ) c.
(21)
The left hand side is just labor’s marginal revenue product, with firm-level employment
given by
ψ
δ+Mψ as follows from a standard flow balance relationship. The right hand side
is the user cost of labor at the reservation wage which is, under optimality, equal to the
user cost of labor everywhere in the distribution of posted wages. These four equations
fully characterize the equilibrium.
B
Extensions for Quantitative Model
This section shows how to add capital to the production function. Then, it shows how to
generalize to inelastic product demand and product market power.
36

Adding Capital
We add capital and assume that labor and capital are imperfect substitutes with an elastic-
ity of substitution σ. The production function is CES,
yi = x

θ
1
σ n
σ−1
σ
i
+ (1 −θ)
1
σ k
σ−1
σ
i
α
σ
σ−1
.
(22)
Capital can freely be adjusted. Denote the rental price of capital by rk. Firms make the
same choices in the labor market as in the baseline model. In addition, they choose a level
of output yi. Given firm level employment, capital is then implied by the chosen level of
output.20 Optimality, as usual, implies that
∂yi
∂ni
∂yi
∂ki
−1
= ωi
rk
,
(23)
where ωi denotes the user cost of labor for firm i.
Product market power
We next extend the model to endogenize goods prices.
As in Gottfries and Jarosch (2026), we assume that all firms in a labor market pro-
duce an identical composite good and that the boundaries of the product market are the
same as those of the labor market. Workers have linear preferences over an outside good
(“money”), so their utility is quasi-linear. Employers care only about the outside good.
Then, there is transferable utility between workers and firms. Workers choose consump-
tion C to maximize the instantaneous utility function
v =
η
η −1
¯Q
1
η C
η−1
η + I −pC,
where ¯Q is a positive constant. They do so taking income I, which is either equal to the
wage or the flow income of unemployment, as given.
20The reason to set up the firm problem in this form is as follows. Firms, as before, choose a contact rate ψi
as well as distribution Fi taking each other’s choices as given. But this means that a firm might recognize that,
by choosing a higher contact rate, its competitors choices would yield a different amount of employment and
hence output. In a setting with product market power this in turn would have price impact. Assuming that
firms choose output and let a flexible factor adjust shuts down these considerations.
37

Quasi-linear preferences imply that consumption is equalized across all workers and,
since there is a unit measure of them, equilibrium consumption of each worker is simply
C = ∑j yj. Optimal consumption requires p = ¯Q
1
η C
−1
η , which results in
p = ¯Q
1
η
 
∑
j
yj
!−1
η
.
(24)
38

ONLINE APPENDIX
C
Proof of Proposition 1
Denote by w∗
u the highest wage when there is no collusion. Any w f ≥w∗
u is not binding
in equilibrium (and the equilibrium therefore corresponds to the baseline without wage
fixing). Similarly, if w f < wr, no worker is employed at the colluding firms and the equi-
librium corresponds to the benchmark equilibrium with only the M −K outside firms. The
following proof therefore presumes that w f ∈[wr, w∗
u).
C.1
Preliminaries
We begin by deriving some properties of the equilibrium.
Lemma C.1. At any mass point, there can at most be one firm, except at w f where there can be
more firms that are all in the cartel.
To prove this, assume there are multiple employers all posting jobs at a mass point.
Then, a firm at the mass point would find it profitable to post jobs with marginally higher
pay and discretely lower turnover. The reason is that workers move with strictly positive
probability when indifferent.
Next, we establish the following.
Lemma C.2. There cannot be any gap in the support, except below a mass point at w f . There
cannot be any non-degenerate interval where only a single firm posts.
The reason there cannot be any gaps is that a firm posting just above the gap could
always lower its wage without increasing turnover. However, if there is a mass point with
multiple firms posting, then turnover discretely jumps for a firm at the mass point when
reducing the wage as long as κ < 1. We have already established that the only mass point
where multiple firms possibly post wages is w f . To prove the second part of the lemma
note that the lone firm on a non-degenerate interval could increase profits by only offering
the lowest wage in the interval because its turnover cost would not rise.
We now want to prove that all firms offer wages on a connected support (except for
below any masspoint at w f ) from highest admissible wage and that all firms of the same
39

type offer jobs at the same rate and with the same distribution over wages. To do so, we
proceed in a number of steps.
Lemma C.3. Suppose (w1, w2) ⊆supp(Fi) for all i ∈M and Fj(w−
2 ) = Fj(w1) for all j /∈M.
Then, over this interval, the rate at which each firm offers jobs and the distribution of wages are
identical.
To see this, denote l the number of firms in the interval and ˆψj the rate of offer of jobs
and ˆFj(w) the distribution of wages in the interval by firm j. For firm i in the interval, we
require that
w −w1 −sc∑
j̸=i
ˆψ′
j ˆFj(w) = 0
(25)
since limw→w1 ˆFj(w) = 0. This has to hold for all w ∈(w1, w2) and all of the l firms.
It follows that for any pair of firms i and z posting on this interval sc ∑j̸=z ˆψ′
j ˆFj(w) −
sc ∑j̸=i ˆψ′
j ˆFj(w) = sc ˆψi ˆFi(w) −sc ˆψz ˆFz(w) = 0 for all w ∈(w1, w2). Given that limw→w2 ˆFj(w) =
1 and limw→w1 ˆFj(w) = 0, sc ∑j̸=z ˆψ′
j ˆFj(w2) −sc ∑j̸=i ˆψ′
j ˆFj(w2) = sc ˆψi −sc ˆψz = 0 and so all
firms have the same contact rate. Again use (25) evaluated at w2 and with symmetric
contact rates to get that ˆψ′
j = w2−w1
sc(l−1).
Plug in for the contact rate and use (25) once more to show that ˆFj(w) = w−w1
w2−w1 . There-
fore, all firms offer jobs at the same rate and with the same wage offer distribution over
this interval.
Lemma C.4. Suppose firm i posts a wage w1 but does not post wages anywhere on an interval
immediately above, (w1, w2). Then, no other firm j offers wages over this interval, unless i is in the
cartel and w1 = w f .
To prove this, assume the contrary. Firm i offers w1 but not on (w1, w2) for some w2.
Denote by l the number of i’s competitors posting on the first part of this interval, (w1, w′)
with w′ ≤w2 (there might be intervals with a different numbers of firms posting). From
(25), we have that (l −1)scψ′ = w′ −w1, where ψ′ now denotes the rate of offers in this
interval by the l firms. This implies that the user cost is lower for firm i at w′ compared
with w1 because its turnover cost over this interval falls by lscψ′ > w′ −w1. This proves
the Lemma.
Lemma C.5. If there is a mass at w f , no outside firm or cartel member that does not offer the most
amount of jobs at w f offers a wage below w f .
40

Assume first that at least one cartel firms offer a mass of jobs at w f but that some other
firm offers fewer jobs at w f . Assume that that other firm also offers wages below w f . Pick
the firm i with the largest mass of jobs at w f . If that firm was posting a wage just marginally
below the w f that job had additional turnover cost sc(1 −κ) ∑j̸=i ψj(Fj(w+
f ) −Fj(w−
f )). It
follows that it would not post any wage below w f that is higher than w′ which solves
w f −w′ = sc(1 −κ) ∑j̸=i ψj(Fj(w+
f ) −Fj(w−
f )). All other firms would post any wage on
(w′, w f ) either as their increase in turnover would be weakly larger. Thus, if w′ < wr no
firm posts any wage strictly below w f .
If, in turn, w′ > wr and the gap below w f extended beyond w′, then firm i would prefer
not to post on the masspoint and instead post the highest wage below the gap. Thus, for
firm i to post a mass of jobs at w f , the gap has to span from w′ to w f .
Now consider cartel firms that post a strictly lower mass at w f or outside firms that
post right above w f . These firms will have strictly higher user cost at w′ and will hence
not post there or immediately below. If they posted any wage below w f it would be at a
level strictly below w′ but that is ruled out by Lemma C.4.
Lemma C.6. All outside firms have the same user cost and hence the same level of employment.
To prove this, note first that the user cost must be equated across all wages offered by
any given firm since otherwise it could lower its total user cost. Assume now that there
exist a firm i that has a lower user cost than another firm j of the same type. Denote by
w′ the highest wage offered by firm i. Take firm j (of the same type) that has a higher
user cost. Firm j can offer w′ and firm j must at this wage have weakly lower turnover
and therefore weakly lower user cost of labor.21 This contradicts that i has a lower user
cost and all firms of the same type must consequently have the same user cost. A direct
implication is that employment is the same at all firms of the same type when technology
is the same.
Next, we establish the following.
Lemma C.7. All cartel firms offer the same amount of jobs at w f when κ is sufficiently low.
Suppose, to the opposite, that i posted fewer jobs than j at w f . By Lemma C.5, firm i
21Firm i cannot offer a mass of jobs at its highest wage w′. If i did, j would only offer wages above w′ (the
logic analogous to lemma C.5). If j offered a nondegenerate distribution of wages above w′, a contradiction
would follow from lemma C.4; if it posted a mass, a contradiction would follow again from lemma C.5.
41

posts no jobs below w f . Firm j therefore has strictly higher employment than i since, by
definition of w f , neither posts above.
To prove that this cannot hold, abuse notation and denote by ψj firm j’s offer rate at w f
(its total offer rate might be higher). Express firm i’s offer rate at w f as ∆ψj, with ∆< 1.
We have that ni/nj = a∆where a ≤1 since firm j might post some jobs below w f . Next,
denote by γ the quit rate at w f to firms other than i or j. Optimal employment implies that
αxnα−1
j
=
w f + (r + δ + γ)c + sκψic = w f + (r + δ + γ)c + sκψjc∆,
(26)
αxnα−1
i
=
w f + (r + δ + γ)c + sκψjc.
(27)
Taking the ratio yields
(a∆)1−α
=
1 −
sκψjc
w f + (r + δ + γ)c + sκψjc +
sκψjc
w f + (r + δ + γ)c + sκψjc∆.
(28)
Note that the equation holds when ∆= 1 and a = 1, that is in the limit where the two
firms act identically. The Lemma immediately follows if this is the unique solution. We
next show that this is indeed the case provided κ is low enough.
To see this, note that the RHS is an increasing linear function in ∆with a positive
intercept whereas the LHS is an increasing concave function function of ∆with intercept
at 0. Thus, the slope of the LHS is lowest for ∆= 1. Start with a = 1. If the derivative
of the LHS is higher than the derivative of the RHS at ∆= 1, the derivative of the LHS
is higher for all ∆< 1. It follows that the LHS is lower than the RHS for all ∆< 1 since
they reach the same value at ∆= 1. Hence, no solution with ∆< 1 exists. Of course, there
is no solution for a < 1 since this implies a LHS that is even lower. The condition for the
derivative of the LHS to be larger than the RHS is then
1 −α
>
sκψjc
w f + (r + δ + γ)c + sκψjc.
(29)
This holds if firm j does not contribute too much to the user cost of firm i. For any set of
parameters there exists a sufficiently small value of κ such that this holds.
Lemma C.8. All firms of the same type act symmetrically.
First consider outside firms. They post wages from the highest wage. Suppose that was
not the case and instead the highest wage that some regular firm posts is w′ with w′ < wu.
42

Then, it would not post on any open interval above w′, but then no other firm would post
there either which would make w′ the highest wage, from Lemma C.4.
It also follows from Lemma C.4 and Lemma C.2 that the outside firms post continu-
ously distributed wages at least down to w f . If there is mass at w f then, by Lemma C.5,
outside firms do not post any wages below and so behave identically.
If, in turn, there is no mass at w f then, it follows jointly from Lemma C.2 and Lemma
C.4 that each regular firm has a lowest wage above which it posts continuously up to the
highest wage. Suppose two outside firms had differing lowest wages. Since they offer the
same distribution at the same rate over any common interval by Lemma C.3, it follows
that one is larger than the other which contradicts Lemma C.6.
Turning to the cartel, we know from Lemma C.7 that all cartel firms offer the same
amount of jobs at w f and have the same user costs and employment. If there is a mass of
jobs offered at w f , there is a gap below until w′ where w′ = w f −sc(1 −κ) ∑j̸=i ψj(Fj(w f ) −
Fj(w−
f )) where i is a cartel firm. Note that all cartel firms offer the same amount of jobs at
w f by Lemma C.7. If there is no mass at w f then w′ = w f . It also follows from Lemma
C.4 and Lemma C.2 that firms post continuously distributed wages below w′ down to wr
unless w′ ≤wr. The rest of the argument is symmetric to the outside firms.
C.2
Main Part of Proof of Proposition 1
Let ψc denote the offer rate of each of the cartel members and ψu the offer rate, strictly
above w f , of each of the outside firms. Define the employment given by the flows in the
outside firms and cartel firms as ns
o(ψu, ψc) and ns
c(ψu, ψc), respectively. The implied em-
ployment demand by each type of firms is similarly defined by nd
o(ψu, ψc) and nd
c(ψu, ψc),
respectively.
The proof proceeds as follows. We first show that the above Lemmas imply that, given
fixed values of offer rates ψu and ψc, there is a unique allocation. We then show that these
values of ψu and ψc are unique which then implies that the equilibrium is unique.
To begin with, we show that the equilibrium, given ψc and ψu such that the wage ceiling
is binding, can be split into the following four cases, depending on how large w f −wr is
relative to ψc.
In all cases, the outside firms offer jobs uniformly over (w f , wu] where wu = w f +
sc(M −K −1)ψu but in case III and IV, they also offer wages below w f .
43

1. If w f −wr ≤(K −1)sψc(1 −κ)c, all cartel firms offer all their jobs at w f .
Given that there is a mass point at w f , we know that no regular firm posts a lower
wage. We further know that there are no gaps in the support and that the outside
firms act symmetrically by Lemma C.8. It follows that they offer jobs uniformly over
(w f , wu] where wu = w f + sc(M −K −1)ψu.
Thus, it remains to show that the cartel firms offer jobs only at w f . Assume, to the
contrary, that the cartel firms offer jobs at w f at a rate ˜ψ < ψc, implying that they
also post jobs at wages below w f . From Lemma C.5, it follows that there are no
offers over the interval (w1, w f ) where w1 = w f −s(1 −κ)(K −1) ˜ψc. The remaining
offers must therefore be over the interval [wr, w1] . From Lemma C.3, we know that
in order for the firms to be indifferent over this interval, we must have that w1 =
wr + s(K −1)(ψc −˜ψ)c. These two conditions jointly imply
˜ψ = ψc
κ −
w f −wr
s(K −1)cκ,
(30)
which implies ˜ψ ≥ψc for
ψc ≥
w f −wr
s(K −1)c(1 −κ),
(31)
and therefore a contradiction. We note that, if ˜ψ = 0, then outside firms might also
make offers below w f which reinforces the argument. It follows that the cartel only
posts at w f .
Given these posting decisions, employment at the respective firms satisfies
ns
c(ψu, ψc)
=
ψc
δ + s(M −K)ψu
δ
δ + Kψc + (M −K)ψu
,
(32)
ns
o(ψu, ψc)
=
ψu

1 +
sKψc
δ + s(M −K)ψu

δ
δ + Kψc + (M −K)ψu
.
(33)
The user costs satisfies
ωc
=
w f + sc (κ(K −1)ψc + (M −K)ψu) ,
(34)
ωo
=
w f + sc(M −K −1)ψu,
(35)
44

which implies that the optimal employment demand satisfies
nd
c(ψu, ψc)
=

αx
w f + sc (κ(K −1)ψc + (M −K)ψu)

1
1−α
,
(36)
nd
o(ψu, ψc)
=

αx
w f + sc(M −K −1)ψu

1
1−α
.
(37)
2. If w f −wr ∈((K −1)sψc(1 −κ)c, (K −1)sψcc), the outside firms act as above whereas
the cartel firms offer a mass of jobs at w f at rate ψf and, additionally, uniformly dis-
tributed wages on [wr, w1], at rate ψc −ψf .
w1 and ψf are such that scψf (1−κ)(K −1) = w f −w1 and w1 −wr = sc(ψc −ψf )(K −
1). This implies that ψf = ψc
κ −
w f −wr
sc(K−1)κ and w1 = wr + sc(K −1)

ψc(1−κ)
κ
+
w f −wr
sc(K−1)κ

.
Employment is given by (32) and (33), as before. The user cost is given by
ωc = w f + sc(M −K)ψu + sc(K −1)κψf = w f + sc(M −K)ψu + sc(K −1)

ψc −w f −wr
sc(K −1)

,
ωo = w f + sc(M −K −1)ψu,
which implies that the employment demand satisfies
nd
c(ψu, ψc)
=


αx
w f + sc(M −K)ψu + sc(K −1)

ψc −
w f −wr
sc(K−1)



1
1−α
,
(38)
nd
o(ψu, ψc)
=

αx
w f + sc(M −K −1)ψu

1
1−α
.
(39)
3. If w f −wr ≥(K −1)sψcc and w f −wr < (M −1)sψcc, cartel firms offer jobs uni-
formly over [wr, w1] at rate ψ1 and over (w1, w f ] at rate ψ2 = ψc −ψ1. outside firms
offer jobs uniformly over (w1, w f ], at rate ψ2, and over (w f , wu], at rate ψu where
wu = w f + sc(M −K −1)ψu.
Indifference implies both w1 = wr + sc(K −1)ψ1 and w1 = w f −sc(M −1)ψ2 which
yields ψ1 =
sc(M−1)ψc−(w f −wr)
sc(M−K)
and w1 = wr + sc(K −1)
sc(M−1)ψc−(w f −wr)
sc(M−K)
. Employ-
45

ment satisfies
ns
c(ψu, ψc)
=
ψ1(ψu, ψc)
δ + sMψ2(ψu, ψc) + s(M −K)ψu
δ
δ + Kψ1(ψu, ψc) + Mψ2(ψu, ψc) + (M −K)ψu
+
ψ2(ψu, ψc)
δ + s(M −K)ψu

1 + sK
ψ1(ψu, ψc)
δ + sMψ2(ψu, ψc) + s(M −K)ψu

δ
δ + Kψ1(ψu, ψc) + Mψ2(ψu, ψc) + (M −K)ψu
,
=
(M−1)ψc
M−K
−
w f −wr
sc(M−K)
δ + s
M
M−K
w f −wr
sc
−s M(K−1)
M−K ψc + s(M −K)ψu
δ
δ + ψc +
w f −wr
sc
+ (M −K)ψu
+
w f −wr
sc(M−K) −K−1
M−K ψc
δ + s(M −K)ψu

1 + sK
(M−1)ψc
M−K
−
w f −wr
sc(M−K)
δ + s
M
M−K
w f −wr
sc
−s M(K−1)
M−K ψc + s(M −K)ψu


δ
δ + ψc +
w f −wr
sc
+ (M −K)ψu
,
ns
o(ψu, ψc)
=
1
M −K
 
ψc +
w f −wr
sc
+ (M −K)ψu
δ + ψc +
w f −wr
sc
+ (M −K)ψu
−Knc
!
.
The user cost is given by
ωc = w f + sc(M −K)ψu,
(40)
and
ωo = w f + sc(M −K −1)ψu.
(41)
which implies that the employment demand satisfies
nd
c(ψu, ψc)
=

αx
w f + sc(M −K)ψu

1
1−α
,
(42)
nd
o(ψu, ψc)
=

αx
w f + sc(M −K −1)ψu

1
1−α
.
(43)
4. If w f −wr ≥(M −1)sψcc, cartel firms offer jobs uniformly over (w1, w f ] at rate ψc.
The outside firms offer jobs uniformly over [wr, w1) at rate ψ1 =
w f −wr−scψc(M−1)
sc(M−K−1)
,
over (w1, w f ] at rate ψc, and over (w f , wu] at rate ψu. The user costs are unchanged
from the previous case,
ωc = w f + sc(M −K)ψu
(44)
and
ωo = w f + sc(M −K −1)ψu.
(45)
46

Employment satisfies (where the arguments (ψu, ψc) for ψ1 and ψ2 are dropped)
ns
c(ψu, ψc)
=
ψc
δ + s(M −K)ψu

1 + s(M −K)
ψ1
δ + sMψc + s(M −K)ψu

δ
δ + (M −K)ψ1 + Mψc + (M −K)ψu
,
=
ψc
δ + s(M −K)ψu
δ
δ + sMψ2 + s(M −K)ψu
δ + s(M −K)ψ1 + sMψc + s(M −K)ψu
δ + (M −K)ψ1 + Mψc + (M −K)ψu
,
=
ψc
δ + s(M −K)ψu
δ
δ + sMψc + s(M −K)ψu
δ +
M−K
M−K−1
w f −wr
c
−s
K
(M−K−1) ψc + s(M −K)ψu
δ + 1
s
M−K
M−K−1
w f −wr
c
−
K
(M−K−1) ψc + (M −K)ψu
,
ns
o(ψu, ψc)
=
1
M −K

Kψ1 + Mψ2 + (M −K)ψu
δ + Kψ1 + Mψ2 + (M −K)ψu
−Knc

.
There are some implication of the characterization that will be useful later on.
REMARK 1. The functions ns
c(ψu, ψc), ns
o(ψu, ψc), nd
c(ψu, ψc), and nd
o(ψu, ψc) are continuous
in both argument.
To see this note that the expressions are clearly continuous within each case. We there-
fore just have to consider what happens when we cross between the cases.
Notice that when going from equilibrium type I to II the supply ns
c and ns
c are un-
changed so the result is immediate. Similarly, at the left limit of this region where w f −
wr = (K −1)sψc(1 −κ)c, the limit of the mass of offers at w f is given by
ψf = ψc
κ −
w f −wr
sc(K −1)κ = ψc.
(46)
Similarly, when going from case II to III. In the right limit of region II, the rate offer at
w f satisfies
ψf = ψc
κ −
w f −wr
sc(K −1)κ = 0.
(47)
In the left limit of region III,
w1 = wr + sc(K −1)sc(M −1)ψc −(w f −wr)
sc(M −K)
= w f ,
(48)
so there is no overlapping region which implies that that the supply and demand are
continuous as we move from region II to III.
47

Lastly, considering case III to case IV. In the right limit of region III and on the left limit
of region IV, the rate offer over [wr, w f ] are the same for the two types of firms.
Strategy for remainder of proof
The four cases above are ordered by w f relative to
an endogenous variable, ψc. We will therefore show that there exists a unique value ψc
such that firms’ optimal labor demand equals labor supply as implied by worker flows.
To do so, we first map ψc to ψu by showing that, given ψu, there exists a unique ψc such
that relative labor demand equals relative labor supply and that the mapping from ψu to
ψc is continuous. Then, we show that there exists a unique value of ψu that equates labor
demand and supply for the outside firms using the intermediate value theorem. As a
preliminary step, we establish a bound for ψu in the next lemma.
Lemma C.9. ψu is bounded above by ψ which is the unique value that satisfies
ψ

1 −(1 −s)K
 
αx
w f + (r + δ + (M −K)sψ)c
!
1
1−α
−(M −K)
 
αx
w f + (r + δ + (M −K −1)sψ)c
!
1
1−α 

= δ
 
αx
w f + (r + δ + (M −K −1)sψ)c
!
1
1−α
. (49)
Before proving the statement, it is instructive to briefly consider its content. In words,
this is the average contact rate above w f in an equilibrium with no mass at w f where the
cartel posts on [wr, w f ] and the outside firms post on [w f , wu], that is the knife-edge case
between Case II and Case III described in the main text.
Proof. We first note that since the right hand side is increasing in ψ, the left hand side is
decreasing, and the right hand side is smaller for ψ →0 and larger for ψ →∞), a unique
positive value of ψ that solves (49) exists.
Assume then, to the contrary of the lemma, that an equilibrium exists with ψu > ψ. The
user cost of the cartel firms is therefore weakly higher than w f + (r + δ + s(M −K)ψu)c.
(The cost is weakly higher because the cartel firms might post a mass of jobs at w f .) Em-
48

ployment in the cartel firms is therefore bounded above by
nc ≤

αx
w f + (r + δ + s(M −K)ψu)c

1
1−α
<
 
αx
w f + (r + δ + s(M −K)ψ)c
!
1
1−α
.
(50)
The lowest employment in the outside firms occurs if they do not post any additional job
offers. Employment in the outside firms is therefore bounded below by ˜no which is the
level of employment at the outside firms if they only post above w f which solves
δ ˜no
=
ψu (1 −(M −K)no −(1 −s)Knc) ,
(51)
where no is the employment at the outside firms (since additional employment below w f
at the outside firms would raise their employment). From above it follows that the right
hand side of this equation is bounded below (due to the upper bound for nc) by
ψu (1 −(M −K)no −(1 −s)Knc) > ψ

1 −(1 −s)K
 
αx
w f + (r + δ + (M −K)sψ)c
!
1
1−α
−(M −K)
 
αx
w f + (r + δ + (M −K −1)sψ)c
!
1
1−α


(52)
We can similarly create an upper bound for the left hand side of (51). Note that since
ψu > ¯ψ it follows from optimal labor demand that
δ ˜no < δ
 
αx
w f + (r + δ + (M −K −1)sψ)c
!
1
1−α
.
(53)
However, equation (49) implies that the RHS of (52) and (53) to be the same, we get a
contradiction.
Lemma C.10. For each ψu ∈[0, ψ], there is a unique ψc such that ns
o(ψu, ψc)/ns
c(ψu, ψc) =
nd
o(ψu, ψc)/nd
c(ψu, ψc).
Proof. We will prove this in two parts.
First, note that ns
o/ns
c exceeds nd
o/nd
c as ψc →0 since ns
c →0 whereas nd
o/nd
c →

w f +(r+δ+sψu(M−K))c
w f +(r+δ+sψu(M−K−1))c

1
1−α > 0 and ns
o > 0. Second, as ψc →∞, nd
o/nd
c →∞whereas
ns
o/ns
c remain bounded. Since nd
o/nd
c and ns
o/ns
c are continuous functions in ψc, a solution
nd
o/nd
c = ns
o/ns
c exists.
49

We will now show that nd
o/nd
c −ns
o/ns
c is strictly increasing in ψc which implies that
there exist a unique solution.
First, from the characterization it follows that nd
o/nd
c is weakly increasing in ψc since nd
c
is weakly decreasing in ψc whereas nd
o is independent of ψc.
We will now show that ns
o/ns
c is strictly decreasing in ψc.
We do it case by case and show that within each case, it holds. For case I and II, it
follows directly from (32) and (33).
First, take a ψc that is strictly lower, the outside firms offer (weakly) more jobs below
w f . Denote w′ the lowest wage paid by the outside firms. We get that from the characteri-
zation and ψc being lower, it follows that w′ is weakly lower.
First start with case III. Denote by ψ′ the rate of offers by the outside firms over the
region [w′, w f ]. In the new equilibrium ψ′ has increased.
Total employment is given by
E =
K(ψc −ψ′) + Mψ′ + (M −K)ψu
δ + K(ψc −ψ′) + Mψ′ + (M −K)ψu
=
Kψc + (M −K)ψ′ + (M −K)ψu
δ + Kψc + (M −K)ψ′ + (M −K)ψu
,
(54)
using that (M −K)ψ′ =
w f −wr
sc
−(K −1)ψc, this implies that a fall in ψc results in lower
total employment. Total employment above w′ solves
E′ = Mψ′ + (M −K)ψu
δ
(1 −E + s(E −E′)) =
Mψ′ + (M −K)ψu
δ + sMψ′ + s(M −K)ψf
(1 −(1 −s)E),
(55)
which is strictly higher when ψc is lower since ψ′ has increased and employment E is lower.
Thus, the outside firms employment increase unless the employment above w f decrease
sufficiently. Total employment strictly above w f solves
δEu = (M −K)ψu
δ
(1 −E + s(E −Eu)) →Eu =
(M −K)ψu
δ + s(M −K)ψu
(1 −(1 −s)E)
(56)
which has strictly higher since E is lower. Total employment in the outside firms has there-
fore increased. Total employment by cartel firms have decreased since total employment
is lower. Thus, ns
o/ns
c is decreasing in ψc.
For case IV, consider again a lower value of ψc. A lower value of ψc implies that total
employment has increased (see characterization above). Employment in the cartel firms
50

satisfies
ns
c =
δ
δ + s(M −K)ψu
ψc
δ + sMψc + s(M −K)ψu
δ +
M−K
M−K−1
w f −wr
c
−s
K
(M−K−1)ψc + s(M −K)ψu
δ + 1
s
M−K
M−K−1
w f −wr
c
−
K
(M−K−1)ψc + (M −K)ψu
.
(57)
This expression is lower when ψc is lower. Thus, since total employment has increased
and ns
c is lower, we again get that ns
o/ns
c is decreasing in ψc.
Lemma C.11. The function ψc(ψu) such that ns
o(ψu,ψc(ψu))
nsc(ψu,ψc(ψu)) = nd
o(ψu,ψc(ψu))
ndc(ψu,ψc(ψu)) is continuous in ψu for
ψu ∈[0, ψu].
Proof. Note that the function f (ψu, ψc) = nd
o(ψu, ψc)/nd
c(ψu, ψc) −ns
o(ψu, ψc)/ns
c(ψu, ψc) is
continuous in both arguments (from the characterization) and, from the proof of Lemma
C.10, strictly increasing in ψc. Assume that the function ψc(ψu) is not continuous at ψu
with limϵ→0 ψc(ψu + ϵ) = ψc(ψu) + δ. We therefore get a contradiction since limϵ→0 f (ψu +
ϵ, ψc(ψu + ϵ)) −f (ψu, ψc(ψu)) > 0 since f (ψu, ψc) is strictly increasing in ψc.
Parameter Restriction II
ASSUMPTION 1. We assume, from here on, that
min
ψu∈[0,ψ]
(δ + s(M −K)ψu)2/δ

αx
w f +(r+δ+s(M−K)ψu)c

1
1−α
1 −
 δ+s(M−K)ψu
δ
sM + (1 −s)K
 
αx
w f +(r+δ+s(M−K)ψu)c

1
1−α
−(1 −s)(M −K)

αx
w f +(r+δ+s(M−K−1)ψu)c

1
1−α
>
w f −wr
(M −1)sc .
(58)
Lemma C.12. No type IV equilibrium exists.
Proof. Recall that a type IV equilibrium occurs when ψc <
w f −wr
(M−1)sc. The following proof
then just offers a lower bound on ψc in terms of primitives and assumption 1 guarantees
that lower bound is sufficiently large. To see this note that under case IV, the offer rate of
cartel firms is given by
ψc =
(δ + s(M −K)ψu)
1 −Mnc −sX −(1 −s)(M −K) (no −nc)nc
(59)
51

X denotes the employment strictly above w f , which solves
δX
=
(M −K)ψu (1 −(1 −s)Knc −(1 −s)(M −K)no −sX)
(60)
X
=
(M −K)ψu
δ + s(M −K)ψu
(1 −(1 −s)Knc −(1 −s)(M −K)no)
(61)
We therefore have
ψc
=
(δ + s(M −K)ψu)nc
1 −Mnc −s
(M−K)ψu
δ+s(M−K)ψu (1 −(1 −s)Knc −(1 −s)(M −K)no) −(1 −s)(M −K) (no −nc)
=
(δ + s(M −K)ψu)
δ
δ+s(M−K)ψu −sMnc −
δ
δ+s(M−K)ψu (1 −s) (Knc + (M −K)no)
nc
=
(δ + s(M −K)ψu)2/δ
1 −δ+s(M−K)ψu
δ
sMnc −(1 −s) (Knc + (M −K)no)
nc,
(62)
We know ψu ∈[0, ψ] and that, under case IV,
nc
=

αx
w f + (r + δ + s(M −K)ψu)c
1/(1−α)
,
(63)
no
=

αx
w f + (r + δ + s(M −K −1)ψu)c
1/(1−α)
.
(64)
using these two equations, we get that
ψc
=
(δ + s(M −K)ψu)2/δ
1 −
 s(M−K)ψu
δ
sM + s(M −K) + K

nc −(1 −s)(M −K)no
nc,
=
(δ + s(M −K)ψu)2/δ

αx
w f +(r+δ+s(M−K)ψu)c

1
1−α
1 −
 s(M−K)ψu
δ
sM + s(M −K) + K
 
αx
w f +(r+δ+s(M−K)ψu)c

1
1−α −(1 −s)(M −K)

αx
w f +(r+δ+s(M−K−1)ψu)c

1
1−α
.
Assumption 1 then implies that s(M −1)ψcc ≥w f −wr which immediately rules out case
IV.
Lemma C.13. There exists a unique equilibrium value of ψu.
Proof. First clearly as ψu →0, ns
o(ψu, ψc(ψu)) < nd
o(ψu, ψc(ψu)) since the fixed wage is
binding. As ψu →ψ, the opposite is true by Lemma C.9. Note further that the functions
ns
o(ψu, ψc(ψu)) −nd
o(ψu, ψc(ψu)) is continuous in both arguments. The function ψc(ψu)) is
52

continuous from Lemma C.11. Therefore the function ns
o(ψu, ψc(ψu)) −nd
o(ψu, ψc(ψu)) is
continuous and a solution exists.
Second, for a higher value of ψu, nd
o(ψu, ψc(ψu)) is lower. Consider now ψc that is
weakly lower. This implies that ns
o(ψu, ψc(ψu)) is higher (see proof of Lemma C.10) which
results in the contradiction. Consider a case in which ψc has increased. Under Case I, II,
and III this implies that the job offer rate over [wr, w f ] weakly increase. Employment must
therefore go up. This results in the contradiction since nd
o(ψu, ψc(ψu)), nd
c(ψu, ψc(ψu)) have
strictly decreased.
D
Proof of Proposition 2
Part A
Proof. For any equilibrium with a binding w f , the characterization of the equilibrium ob-
tained in proving Proposition 1 directly implies that the user cost for the cartel members is
higher. Since employment and profits are strictly declining in the user cost of labor, these
firms also have lower profits and employment.
To show that the impact on the average wage is ambiguous consider the following
case in which all firms are in the cartel. Let wu and ψ denote the highest wage and offer
arrival rate in the absence of collusion. Take the wage ceiling w f = wu −s(M −1)ψκc.
We can now guess and verify that employment remains unchanged. Given an unchanged
employment, the equilibrium is in case I with an unchanged user cost since the lower
highest wage is offset by the turnover at the mass point. Clearly the average wage will
increase provided that κ is sufficiently small relative to δ. In contrast, if K = M and
w f = wr, clearly wages are lower.
Part B
Cartel Firms
Proof. We first cover the cartel firms where we proceed by example. Equation (9) in the
main body gives a closed form expression for the cartel’s user cost in the special case where
53

s = 1, K < M, κ →0, and we are in an equilibrium of type I. There, the cartel’s user cost
is declining in the user cost of the outside firms (and therefore in w f ) for sufficiently low
w f . In contrast, the user cost of the cartel members is increasing in w f when K = M. This
establishes that reducing the wage ceiling may or may not reduce the cartel’s user cost.
Additionally, in the case covered by (9), the cartel’s user cost goes to infinity for suffi-
ciently low w f which gives a case where the cartel members’ profits are lower than with-
out a binding wage ceiling. The opposite is the case for any binding wage ceiling above
wr when K = M. The impact of wage fixing on the cartel’s profit is therefore ambiguous.
Outside Firms
Proof. We now turn to the outside firms. We prove that the highest wage wu is strictly
increasing in w f . Since the user costs of the outside firms are given by wu + (r + δ)c,
this is sufficient to establish that their user cost is strictly increasing in w f , the part of the
proposition that remains to be proven.
We proceed by contradiction. Suppose, to the contrary, that there exist two (binding)
values for the wage ceiling with w′
f < w′′
f such that wu is higher under w′
f than w′′
f . This
has two implications that we will use: first, employment at outside firms is higher under
w′′
f since the user cost are lower; second, the amount of offers above w f , ψu, is strictly lower
under w′′
f . The latter follows from wu = w f + s(M −K −1)ψuc, since w f is higher but wu
is weakly lower.
The rest of the proof establishes contradictions to these implications in a case-by-case
fashion. We break the proof into two exhaustive cases, a) the case where the cartel mem-
bers’ user cost is weakly lower under w′′
f compared with w′
f , and b) the case where the
cartel members’ user cost is strictly higher under w′′
f compared with w′
f .
Part a) lower cartel user cost under higher ceiling
First, consider the case where
the cartel members’ user cost is weakly lower under w′′
f compared with w′
f . This implies
that cartel employment nc is weakly higher.
Part a-I) Case I and II equilibrium under w′′
f
We first show that it cannot be that
under w′′
f , there is an equilibrium of Case I or II. Equilibrium employment in outside firms
54

under an equilibrium of these types is given by:
no =
ψu
δ + (M −K)ψu (1 −(1 −s)Knc) .
(65)
Employment under w′
f is
no =
ψu
δ + (M −K)ψu (1 −(1 −s)Knc −(1 −s)(M −K)No) + No,
(66)
where No is the level of employment below w′
f in an outside firm. Since ψu is higher, nc
is lower, and No ≥0, employment is higher at the outside firms at the lower w′
f . This
contradicts the earlier observation that employment in the outside firms is higher at w′′
f ,
ruling out an equilibrium of Case I or II under w′′
f .
Part a-II) Case III under w′′
f
What remains to be shown is then that there is no equi-
librium of Case III under w′′
f . Denote the lowest wage posted by the outside employers
associated with w′′
f as w′′
1. We will first consider the case in which we are in case I or II
under w′
f and then cover the case III.
Part a-II-i) Equilibrium under w′
f is either in Case I or II
Step 1: it must be that w′′
1 < w′
f .
Assume, to the contrary, that w′′
1 ≥w′
f . Let ˜ψ denote the total rate of offers above
w′′
1. From the characterization of Case III with w′′
f , we know that ˜ψ =
M−K
M−K−1
w′′
u−w′′
f
sc
+
M
M−1
w′′
f −w′′
1
sc
. In turn, under w′
f we have that ˜ψ =
M−K
M−K−1
w′
u−w′′
1
sc
, which is larger than under
w′′
f because w′
u > w′′
u.
But recall the implication from above that employment at outside firms must be higher
under w′′
f . The total rate of job offers, denoted ¯ψ, must therefore be higher under w′′
f .
Total employment above w′′
1 solves
N1 =
˜ψ
δ + s ˜ψ

1 −(1 −s)
¯ψ
δ + ¯ψ

.
(67)
This expression is increasing in ˜ψ but declining in ¯ψ. N1 is therefore lower under w′′
f since
˜ψ is lower whereas ¯ψ is higher compared to w′
f .
Under w′
f , the total employment by the outside firms (M −K)no is weakly higher than
55

N1, since only the outside firms post above w1 and w′′
1 ≥w′
f . Employment at the out-
side firms is lower than employment N1 under w′′
f since the cartel firms make offers over
[w′′
1, w′′
f ]. This implies that employment in the outside firms is lower under w′′
f than under
w′
f (since N1 is lower under the former). This yields a contradiction and so it must be the
case that w′′
1 ≤w′
f .
Step 2: Case I or II equilibrium under w′
f
Next, we show that there are fewer offers strictly above w′
f under w′′
f compared with
w′
f . Step 1 proved that w′′
1 < w′
f . This implies that all M firms offer wages over the
region [w′
f , w′′
f ] under w′′
f whereas only the M −K outside firms make offers over this
region under w′
f . The total amount of offers above w′
f is thus
M
M−1
w′′
f −w′
f
sc
+
M−K
M−K−1
w′′
u−w′′
f
sc
under w′′
f . Under w′
f , it is
M−K
M−K−1
w′
u−w′
f
sc
which is strictly larger since, under our conjecture,
w′
u ≥w′′
u.
Next, consider the total amount of offers weakly below w′
f . This is strictly higher under
w′
f (if we are in case I or II under w′
f ) since it is bounded below by
K
K−1
w′
f −wr
sc
whereas under
w′′
f , it is given by
M
M−1
w′
f −w′′
1
sc
+
K
K−1
w′′
1 −wr
sc
, which is less since w′′
1 < w′
f (step 1). Jointly with
the previous paragraph this implies that, under w′
f , employment would be strictly higher
compared with w′′
f , a contradiction.
This rules out Case I or II under w′
f and therefore completes subcase a-II-i).
Part a-II-ii) Case III equilibrium under w′
f
This leaves case III under w′
f .
Total employment by outside firms under either wage ceiling can conveniently be bro-
ken into two pieces:
M−K
M
times total employment above w1 plus K
M times total employ-
ment above the wage ceiling w f .
We will next show that under w′
f each of these is larger compared with w′′
f . This implies
that employment at the outside firms is larger, resulting in a contradiction.
Start with employment above w f . The total rate of offers above w f solves ˜ψ =
M−K
M−K−1
wu−w f
sc
.
This is higher under w′
f compared to w′′
f since wu is higher while w f is lower. The over-
all rate of offers ¯ψ in turn is lower under w′
f since total employment is lower under the
conjecture. The level of employment above w f is given by
˜ψ
δ+s ˜ψ

1 −(1 −s)
¯ψ
δ+ ¯ψ

which is
thus larger under w′
f compared with w′′
f .
Next consider the second piece, the total level of employment above w1. First, the total
number of offers ¯ψ is
K
K−1
w1−wr
sc
+
M
M−1
w f −w1
sc
+
M−K
M−K−1
wu−w f
sc
. Since total employment is
56

lower and wu is higher under w′
f compared to w′′
f (under the conjecture), w1 must therefore
be lower under w′
f since otherwise the rate of offers would be higher. The total rate of
offers above w1 solves ˜ψ =
M
M−1
w f −w1
sc
+
M−K
M−K−1
wu−w f
sc
which is higher under w′
f compared
to w′′
f since wu is higher while w f and w1 are lower. Employment above w1 can then again
be written as
˜ψ
δ+s ˜ψ

1 −(1 −s)
¯ψ
δ+ ¯ψ

, which is thus higher under w′
f compared to w′′
f .
Jointly, it follows from the previous two paragraphs that employment at the outside
firms is larger under w′
f , a contradiction. That rules out subcase a-II-ii) and thus completes
part a).
Part b) higher cartel user cost under higher ceiling
Consider now the case where
the user cost for the cartel members is strictly higher under w′′
f compared with w′
f . We
again split the proof into subcases.
Before turning to the subcases, we will derive an inequality which we will use in each
subcase. Define ψu as the rate of offers strictly above w f . As per the initial conjecture, the
user cost of the outside firms w f + s(M −K −1)ψuc is lower under w′′
f . For this to be the
case, it must be that s(M −K −1)c(ψ′′
u −ψ′
u) ≤−(w′′
f −w′
f ). We therefore have that
w′′
f −w′
f + s(M −K)c(ψ′′
u −ψ′
u) ≤w′′
f −w′
f −
M −K
M −K −1(w′′
f −w′
f ) = −
w′′
f −w′
f
M −K −1 < 0.
(68)
Part b-I) Case III equilibrium under w′′
f .
Equation (68) implies that the user cost of
the cartel under case III, w f + s(M −K)ψuc + (r + δ)c, is strictly lower under w′′
f which
contradicts the conjecture that the cartel’s user cost is lower under w′′
f .
Part b-II-i) Case I or II equilibrium under w′′
f and ψc is weakly lower under w′′
f .
We will derive a contradiction by showing that the user cost of the cartel firms is higher
under w′′
f . To do so, we will first show that we are in case I or II also under w′
f .
The condition for being in case I or II reads
w f −wr
ψc
< (K −1)sc. This condition is met
under w′′
f (because this is the case currently under consideration). Since the left hand side
is smaller when w f is lower and ψc is higher, it is also met under w′
f , which means that we
must be in case I or II under w′
f as well.
The offer rate of jobs paying w f under case I or II is ψf = min
n
ψc, ψc
κ −
w f −wr
sc(K−1)κ
o
. Since
w f is higher and ψc is lower under w′′
f this is strictly lower.
57

This implies that the user cost for the cartel firms would be lower under w′′
f since w f +
sψu(M −K)c is lower via (68) and so is sψf (K −1)c which contradicts the initial conjecture
that the cartel’s user cost is higher under w′′
f . Thus, ψc must be strictly higher under w′′
f .
Part b-II-ii) Case I or II equilibrium under w′′
f and ψc is strictly higher under w′′
f .
Denote by ˆψ the total rate of offers weakly below the wage ceiling w f . Employment below
w f satisfies
ˆψ
δ + s(M −K)ψu
δ
δ + ˆψ + (M −K)ψu
.
(69)
In a case I or II equilibrium this is equal to total cartel employment. In a case III equilibrium
this is strictly larger than total cartel employment.
In order to rank cartel employment between the two wage ceilings we will thus rank ˆψ
and ψu.
ˆψ is higher under w′′
f compared with w′
f . This follows directly from ψ′
c < ψ′′
c if we
are in case I or II under w′
f ; if we are in case III under w′
f , it follows from the fact that
ˆψ′ =
M
M−1
w′
f −w1
sc
+
K
K−1
w1−wr
sc
<
K
K−1
w′′
f −wr
sc
≤Kψ′′
c = ˆψ′′ where the last inequality comes
from the fact that we are in a case I or II equilibrium under w′′
f .
Turning to ψu (the rate of offers by a regular firm above the ceiling), we have that
ψu =
1
M−K−1
wu−w f
sc
. Since wu is higher and w′
f is strictly lower this is strictly larger under
w′
f . Finally, note that the above expression is an upper bound for cartel employment under
a case III equilibrium. Jointly, it follows that cartel employment is higher under w′′
f , a
contradiction. This completes the proof.
E
Derivations of harm
We will calculate a simple expression for the average wage above w f under the case when
w f is sufficiently low such that we are in case I. We first calculate the average wage above
some w f assuming that wages are offered at a rate λ above and are uniformly distributed
58

over [w f , wu]. The average wage in the outside firms satisfies
E[wo]
=
ˆ wu
w f
wgo(w)dw
=
w f +
ˆ wu
w f
(1 −Go(w))dw
=
w f +
ˆ wu
w f

1 −
1 −wu−w
wu−w f
1 + sλ
δ
wu−w
wu−w f

dw
=
wu −
ˆ wu
w f

δ
sλ
sλ
δ + 1 −

1 + sλ
δ
wu−w
wu−w f

1 + sλ
δ
wu−w
wu−w f

dw
=
wu −
ˆ wu
w f

δ
sλ
sλ
δ + 1
1 + sλ
δ
wu−w
wu−w f
−δ
sλ

dw
=
wu −δ(wu −w f )
sλ

1 + δ
sλ

log

1 + sλ
δ

+ δ
sλ(wu −w f )
=
w f +
 wu −w f
 
1 + δ
sλ

−δ(wu −w f )
sλ

1 + δ
sλ

log

1 + sλ
δ

.
To calculate the average wage without wage fixing, we use that λ = Mψ, w f = wr, wu −
w f = s(M −1)ψc and Mψ =
δ ¯N
1−¯N, where ¯N is the total employment.
E[w]K=0
=
wr + s M −1
M
δ ¯N
1 −¯N c
 
1 +
δ
s δ ¯N
1−¯N
!
−δ(M −1)c
M
 
1 +
δ
s δ ¯N
1−¯N
!
log
 
1 +
s δ ¯N
1−¯N
δ
!
=
wr + M −1
M
δc
1 −(1 −s) ¯N
1 −¯N

−
1 −(1 −s) ¯N
s ¯N

log
1 −(1 −s) ¯N
1 −¯N

.
To calculate the average wage strictly above w f under wage fixing, we use that wu −w f =
M−K−1
M−K sλc where λ = (M −K)ψo,
E[wo]
=
w f + M −K −1
M −K
δc
sλ
δ + 1

−M −K −1
M −K
δc

1 + δ
sλ

log

1 + sλ
δ

,
59

next use that ψo =
δno
1−(M−K)no−(1−s)Knc and therefore sλ/δ = s(M −K)ψo/δ =
s(M−K)no
1−(M−K)no−(1−s)Knc
to get that
E[wo]
=
w f + M −K −1
M −K
δc
 
1 −(1 −s)(M −K)no −(1 −s)Knc
1 −(M −K)no −(1 −s)Knc
−1 −(1 −s)(M −K)no −(1 −s)Knc
s(M −K)no
log
1 −(1 −s)(M −K)no −(1 −s)Knc
1 −(M −K)no −(1 −s)Knc
 !
.
To get mean wages, we weight this expression by the relative employment at the outside
firms
E[w]
=
w f +
¯N −Knc
¯N
M −K −1
M −K
 1 −(1 −s) ¯N
1 −¯N + sKnc
−1 −(1 −s) ¯N
s( ¯N −Knc) log
 1 −(1 −s) ¯N
1 −¯N + sKnc

δc
=
w f +
¯N −¯Nc
¯N
M −K −1
M −K
1 −(1 −s) ¯N
1 −¯N + s ¯Nc
−1 −(1 −s) ¯N
s( ¯N −¯Nc)
log
1 −(1 −s) ¯N
1 −¯N + s ¯Nc

δc.
E.1
Backing out s from observables
In this section, we show how to back out s in an equilibrium with collusion (Case I and
using that κ ≈0). Denote by βo the average offer acceptance rate of workers employed at
outside employers. The rate at which workers switch employers ξ is given by the weighted
average of the transition rates at the two different types of employers,
ξ =
Knc
Knc + (M −K)no
s(M −K)ψo +
(M −K)no
Knc + (M −K)no
s(M −K −1)ψoβo.
This uses that workers at outside firms receive job offers from other outside firms at rate
s(M −K −1)ψo, while cartel workers receive offers from outside employers at rate s(M −
K)ψo.
We will next show how to express ψo and βo just in terms of observables. Denote by
Go(x) the fraction of workers in an outside firm with a wage that is below rank x of the
wage offer distribution of outside firms. This satisfies Go(x) =
x
1+s(M−K)ψo/δ(1−x). Next
note that the acceptance rate of a job offer of rank x to a worker employed at an outside
60

firm is simply Go(x). To get the average acceptance rate βo we can just integrate,
βo
≡
ˆ 1
0
Go(x)dx =
ˆ 1
0
x
1 + s(M−K)ψo
δ
(1 −x)
dx
=
ˆ 1
0
δ
s(M −K)ψo
1 + s(M−K)ψo
δ
−1 −s(M−K)ψo
δ
(1 −x)
1 + s(M−K)ψo
δ
(1 −x)
dx
=
δ
s(M −K)ψo
δ
s(M −K)ψo

1 + s(M −K)ψo
δ

log

1 + s(M −K)ψo
δ

−
δ
s(M −K)ψo
=
δ
s(M −K)ψo

δ
s(M −K)ψo
+ 1

log

1 + s(M −K)ψo
δ

−1

.
Finally, use that
ψo =
δno
(1 −(1 −s)Knc −(M −K)no),
(70)
to write ξ fully in terms of employment and the number of each type of firm as well as δ.
This allows to construct s just from information on worker flows ξ and employment inside
and outside the cartel.
61
