Predicting Mutual Funds’ Performance using Deep Learning and Ensemble Techniques
Nghia Chu1
Vega Corporation, Tang 3, 106 Hoang Quoc Viet, Nghia Do, Cau Giay, Hanoi, Vietnam
cdnghia79@gmail.com
Binh Dao
Hanoi University, Km 9, Nguyen Trai, Nam Tu Liem, Hanoi, Vietnam
binhdtt@hanu.edu.vn
Nga Pham
Monash Centre for Financial Studies, 30 Collins St, Melbourne, VIC 3000, Australia
nga.pham@monash.edu
Huy Nguyen
The University of Melbourne, Melbourne Connect 700 Swanston St, Carlton, VIC 3053, Australia
huyxuan.nguyen@student.unimelb.edu.au
Hien Tran
Hanoi University, Km 9, Nguyen Trai, Nam Tu Liem, Hanoi, Vietnam
hientttfmt@hanu.edu.vn
Abstract
Predicting fund performance is beneficial to both investors and fund managers and yet is a challenging task. In this
paper, we have tested whether deep learning models can predict fund performance more accurately than traditional
statistical techniques. Fund performance is typically evaluated by the Sharpe ratio, which represents the risk-adjusted
performance to ensure meaningful comparability across funds. We calculated the annualized Sharpe ratios based on the
monthly returns time series data for more than 600 open-end mutual funds investing in listed large-cap equities in the
United States. With five different forecast horizons ranging from 6 to 24 months, we find that long short-term memory
(LSTM) and gated recurrent units (GRU) deep learning methods, both trained using modern Bayesian optimization,
provide higher accuracy in forecasting funds’ Sharpe ratios than traditional statistical ones. An ensemble method which
combines forecasts from LSTM and GRU achieves the best performance of all models. There is evidence to say that
deep learning and ensembling offer promising solutions in addressing the challenge of fund performance forecasting.
Keywords: deep learning, forecasting, time series, fund performance, LSTM, GRU, ensemble.
1. Introduction
Investment funds are important intermediaries of the
world’s financial market. Globally, there were more than
126,000 regulated mutual funds in 2020.
In the United
States alone, there were around 9,000 mutual funds with
24 trillion dollars of assets under management (AUM) in
2020, according to the Investment Company Fact Book by
(ICI, 2021). Choosing the right investment fund has al-
ways been challenging for institutional and individual in-
vestors. Fund performance is driven by various factors, in-
cluding the fund managers’ understanding of the macro en-
vironment, industry factors, stock performance, and trad-
1Corresponding Author
ing skills. While it is always written in most funds’ prospec-
tus that past performance is not indicative of future perfor-
mance, there has been ample empirical literature that doc-
uments fund performance persistence, for example, among
fixed income funds as in (Kahn and Rudd, 1995), equity
funds and real estate funds (Arnold et al., 2019). Some
attribute performance persistence of mutual funds to man-
agers’ skills (Berk and van Binsbergen, 2015, Kacperczyk
et al., 2014) whereas others explain performance persis-
tence by common factors affecting stock returns and per-
sistent differences in fund expenses and transaction costs
(Carhart, 1997) and capital flows (Lou, 2012).
While the asset pricing literature centers around fac-
tors that explain fund performance and performance pre-
dictability, the topic of forecasting fund performance seems
Preprint submitted to XXX
August 1, 2023
arXiv:2209.09649v3  [q-fin.ST]  31 Jul 2023

to be under-explored. It is, therefore, interesting to answer
whether future fund performance can be forecast given
past performance data, especially with the advanced tech-
niques in deep learning for time-series forecasting.
Being able to forecast fund performance with confi-
dence will allow asset owners, typically individual investors,
endowments, foundations, pension funds and sovereign funds,
to make more informed decisions about their future asset
manager selection. It is well documented in the literature
that investors recognize better-skilled managers and re-
ward outperformance with more fund flows (Berk and van
Binsbergen, 2015). Better performance predictability will
drive fund flows in the market to outperforming funds, at
the same time, creates pressure for underperforming funds
to improve. This process enhances market efficiency.
Despite its significance, there has been a lack of re-
search in forecasting fund performances, especially research
that involves forecasting the performance of multiple mu-
tual funds as multiple simultaneous time series using one
model. This research is intended to fill this gap. We aim to
evaluate various techniques, including modern deep learn-
ing algorithms, traditional statistical techniques, and en-
semble methods that combine model forecasts in different
ways.
This work investigates whether deep learning techniques
can better forecast future fund performances based on past
performance data than conventional statistical methods.
Deep learning comprises sophisticated neural network-based
methods designed to learn patterns from data. Deep learn-
ing has demonstrated its effectiveness in many prediction
problems that involve natural language and vision datasets.
While there have been certain advances for time series
data, there is still a lack of convincing evidence that deep
learning outperforms other simpler, statistics-based meth-
ods on different problem domains.
Past research concluded that neural networks were not
well suited for time series forecasting (Hyndman, 2018).
This may be because numerous deep learning-based al-
gorithms require large amounts of data to perform well.
For example, the famous BERT model, a transformer used
for natural language processing, was pre-trained on an ex-
tremely large text corpus, including the English Wikipedia
with over 2,500M words (Kenton and Toutanova, 2019).
The nature of time series data does not permit such a
massive amount of data available for training deep learn-
ing models.
Contrarily, recent research in deep learning applied to
the time series domain shows more promising results. In
the M4 forecasting competition, the hybrid approach inte-
grating exponential smoothing into advanced neural net-
works outperforms other statistical methods and wins the
competition as in (Smyl, 2020). (Hewamalage et al., 2021)
investigates the effectiveness of recurrent neural networks
in forecasting various datasets. The study concludes that
RNNs are competitive alternatives to state-of-the-art uni-
variate benchmark methods such as ARIMA and exponen-
tial smoothing (ETS).
These studies have in common that they investigate the
recurrent neural network (RNN) algorithms that are well-
known approaches in sequence modelling. They also de-
velop global deep learning models capable of learning from
multiple time series to improve prediction accuracy for in-
dividual ones. This technique is known as cross-learning,
which has been found as a promising alternative to tradi-
tional forecasting (Semenoglou et al., 2021).
Our study addresses the question of whether cross-
learning with carefully tuned RNNs, specifically LSTM
and GRU, works more effectively than traditional univari-
ate methods in the problem of forecasting performances
for multiple mutual funds. The sample of mutual funds
is relatively homogeneous in that they adopt a similar in-
vestment strategy in the United States, which increases
the chance that information in one time series would help
predict the future values of other time series.
We compare the accuracy of ARIMA, Theta, ETS and
Naive statistical methods with deep learning algorithms in
predicting fund performance. While ARIMA and ETS are
popular univariate statistical forecasting models, Theta
was the best-performing forecasting algorithm in the M3
competition, according to (Makridakis and Hibon, 2000).
The Naive method is included for comparison as, despite
its simplicity, it works well for various financial and eco-
nomic time series (Hyndman and Athanasopoulos, 2018).
In addition to individual deep learning and statistical algo-
rithms, we investigate how various ensembling methods for
combining model forecasts lead to different performance
gains.
In summary, the contributions of our research are:
• To the best of our knowledge, our research is the first
that addresses the problem of forecasting the perfor-
mance of multiple mutual funds simultaneously using
modern deep learning approaches.
• We compare deep learning performances against well-
known statistical methods using rolling origin cross-
validation with well-defined data splitting methods
and multiple forecast horizons.
• We experiment with different ensembling methods
for combining model forecasts, including local out-
of-sample performance per time series per algorithm
and global out-of-sample performance per algorithm
in computing weighted averages of forecasts.
• We present a detailed methodology for training deep
learning models, specifically for LSTM and GRU al-
gorithms, using modern Bayesian optimization. We
believe the methodology benefits machine learning
practitioners aiming to study the hyper-parameter
optimization process of deep learning models.
2. Study background
This section presents the literature on predicting the
performance of mutual funds, traditional univariate fore-
2

casting models, and deep learning models for time series
forecasting.
2.1. Predicting mutual fund performance
Fund performance is fundamentally assessed based on
two aspects (1) expected return and (2) risk level, i.e.,
the variability of returns, measured by the standard de-
viation of return. Although the expected rate of return
of a fund is a critical indicator, it alone does not provide
an accurate picture of how the fund has performed relat-
ing to other funds, as higher expected returns come at the
cost of having a higher level of risk. Different funds could
exhibit different variability of returns due to differences in
risk-taking strategies, diversification levels or management
skills.
Since the 1960s, the Sharpe ratio introduced by (Sharpe,
1966) and modified in (Sharpe, 1994) has become the most
popular performance statistics of mutual funds for consid-
ering the trade-off between fund’s risk and return. Sharpe
ratio is also known as the reward-to-variability ratio, as
a fund’s excess return (the rate of return over and above
the risk-free rate of return) is assessed against its level of
risk, i.e., the variability of returns. Therefore, the Sharpe
ratio is unaffected by scale. The implied assumption of the
Sharpe ratio is that all investors can invest funds at the
risk-free interest rate, representing the opportunity cost
of investing in an investment fund or the cost of capital
invested. Fund managers are under constant pressure to
deliver a high Sharpe ratio, otherwise risking losing capital
allocated to their fund.
While other performance indicators are introduced in
academic literature, the Sharpe ratio has always been among
the preferred choices of industry practitioners when it comes
to fund performance evaluation, thanks to its simplicity. It
is reported by most asset managers and included in large
fund databases such as Morningstar or Lipper, cited re-
ports from (Elton and Gruber, 2020). Therefore, in this
paper, we use the Sharpe ratio as an indicator of fund
performance.
Given the scant literature on forecasting fund perfor-
mance, the selection of a reasonable forecast horizon re-
mains an open question.
Our considerations include a
wide range of time windows in which performance per-
sistence is found to hold, as identified in the persistence
literature stream. Persistence studies investigate whether
funds’ relative performance is sustained over adjacent pe-
riods. Some find persistence to be short-lived (Bollen and
Busse, 2005), with performance persistence observed only
within six months (Kacperczyk et al., 2014) or one year
(Carhart, 1997). (Lou, 2012) find that evidence for funds’
persistence reversed after six to twelve quarters. However,
(Irvine et al., 2022) provide evidence that outperformance
persists for at least 17 to 24 months, depending on different
asset pricing models. For longer time windows, Berk and
van Binsbergen report large cross-sectional performance
differences in managers’ skills persist for as long as ten
years. Based on the diverse predictability and persistence
time windows observed in the literature, we decided to use
forecast horizons of 6, 9, 12, 18 and 24 months, with funds’
performance being forecasted for every single month dur-
ing a forecast horizon.
Most studies on forecasting fund performance have used
traditional time series forecasting models. Starting from
the 1980s and 1990s, more advanced neural network tech-
niques were used to address financial forecasting ques-
tions. Specifically, the use of neural networks to forecast
fund performance was introduced in the papers of (Chi-
ang et al., 1996) and (Indro et al., 1999). (Chiang et al.,
1996) employed neural networks to forecast mutual fund
net asset value, while (Indro et al., 1999) used the same
approach to forecasting mutual fund performance in terms
of percentage returns.
A more recent paper is (Wang and Huang, 2010). While
(Wang and Huang, 2010) also use the Sharpe ratio to mea-
sure fund performance like ours, they compare the fast
adaptive neural network classifier (FANNC) with the Back
Propagation neural network (BPN) model and report that
the FANNC is more efficient than the BPN in both classi-
fying and predicting the performance of mutual funds.
It should also be noted that (Wang and Huang, 2010) use
manager’s momentum strategies and herding behavior as
input variables for the prediction of funds’ Sharpe ratio
whereas, in our approach, past Sharpe ratios are the input
to forecast future ones.
The study of (Pan et al., 2019) is similar to the paper
of (Wang and Huang, 2010) in which they use three inputs
of fund size, annual management fee and fund custodian
fee and the fund return as the output for data envelopment
analysis, Back Propagation Neural Network and GABPN
(new evolutionary method) for 17 open-end balance stock
funds for the period August 31, 2015 to July 1, 2016. This
study also uses five accuracy measures to evaluate fore-
cast performance, analyzes the rate of return and builds
the mutual fund net worth prediction model. Compared
to (Pan et al., 2019), our paper examined a substantially
larger number of funds over a much longer time window
using extensive forecasting methods such as deep learning,
ensemble, and traditional statistical techniques.
2.2. Traditional univariate forecasting models
Time series forecasting, especially stock price and fund
performance forecasting, have traditionally been popular
research topics in statistics and econometrics. Traditional
methods range from simple seasonal decomposition (STL)
and simple exponential smoothing (SEM) to more complex
ones such as ETS (Hyndman et al., 2008) and ARIMA
(Newbold, 1983; Box et al.,2015). Non-linear autoregres-
sive time series using numerical forecasting procedure (m-
step-ahead predictive) is also used in (Cai, 2005) and auto-
matic ARIMA in (Melard and Pasteels, 2000) using Time
Series Expert TSE-AX. Combining several traditional meth-
ods can be seen in (Bergmeir and Benítez, 2012), which
used six traditional forecasting methods, namely autore-
gression (AR), moving average (MA), combinations of those
3

models (ARMA), and integrated ARMA as ARIMA, Sea-
sonal and Trend decomposition using Loess (STL) as well
as TAR (Threshold AR) based on cross-validation and
evaluation using the series’ last part. They suggest that
the use of a blocked form of cross-validation for time series
evaluation should be the standard procedure.
The traditional uni-variate methods dominated other
complex computational methods at many forecasting com-
petitions, including M2, M3, and M4 as in (Ahmed et al.,
2010); (Crone et al., 2011); (Makridakis and Hibon, 2000).
A recent paper, (Fiorucci and Louzada, 2020), proposes
a methodology for combining time series forecast mod-
els.
The authors use a cross-validation scheme that as-
signs higher weights to methods with more accurate in-
sample predictions. The methodology is used to combine
forecasts named generalized rolling origin evaluation from
traditional forecasting methods such as the Theta, Sim-
ple Exponential Smoothing (SES), and ARIMA models.
(Makridakis et al., 2020) reported 61 forecasting methods
used in M4 competition with 100,000 time series. The pa-
per of (Li et al., 2020) used the ARIMA model with deep
learning to forecast high-frequency financial time series.
The traditional uni-variate methods show that they
work well when the data volume is not extensive (Ban-
dara et al., 2020; Xu et al., 2019 and Sezer et al., 2020)
and a low number of parameters to be estimated.
2.3. Deep learning forecasting models
Recently, several papers combine the traditional meth-
ods with deep learning (Li et al., 2020; (Pannakkong et al.,
2017) and Xu et al., 2019). (Li et al., 2020) work on the
Chinese CSI 300 index and compare method as Monte
Carlo numerical simulation, ARIMA, support vector ma-
chine (SVM), long short-term memory (LSTM) and ARIMA-
SVM models. Their results show that the enhanced ARIMA
model based on LSTM not only improves the forecasting
accuracy of the single ARIMA model in both fitting and
forecasting but also reduces the computational complex-
ity of only a single deep learning model.
(Pannakkong
et al., 2017) proposes a hybrid forecasting model involving
autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA), artifi-
cial neural networks (ANNs) and k-means clustering. (Xu
et al., 2019) use all linear models and deep belief network
(DBN) models.
Several other papers, (Jianwei et al., 2019), (Cao and
Wang, 2019), and (Sezer et al., 2020) use mixture mod-
els for financial commodity and stock forecasting. (Jian-
wei et al., 2019) employs independent component anal-
ysis (ICA), gate recurrent unit neural network (GRUNN)
named ICA-GRUNN among others to estimate gold prices.
The paper shows that ICA-GRUNN produces prediction
with high accuracy and outperforms the benchmark meth-
ods, namely ARIMA, radial basis function neural network
(RBFNN), long short-term memory neural network (LSTM),
GRUNN and ICA-LSTM. (Cao and Wang, 2019) proposes
the convolutional neural network (CNN) and CNN-support
vector machine (SVM) to forecast stock index. The pa-
per concludes that the neural network method for finan-
cial prediction can handle continuous and categorical vari-
ables and yield good prediction accuracy.
(Sezer et al.,
2020) presents a review of financial time series forecasting
methods. Machine Learning (ML) models (Artificial Neu-
ral Networks (ANNs), Evolutionary Computations (ECs),
Genetic Programming (GP), and Agent-based models),
Deep Learning (DL) models (Convolutional Neural Net-
works (CNNs), Deep Belief Networks (DBNs), and Long-
Short Term Memory (LSTM)) have appeared within the
field, with results that significantly outperform their tra-
ditional ML counterparts for data like market indices, for-
eign exchange rates, and commodity prices forecasting.
(Hewamalage et al., 2021) provides a big picture of the
perspective direction for time series forecasting using re-
current neural networks. The authors present an extensive
study and provide a software framework of existing RNN
architectures for forecasting as Stacked Architecture and
Sequences to Sequence (S2S) for three RNN units includ-
ing Elman RNN, LSTM and GRU. The main difference
between S2S and Stacked with the dense layer and the
moving window input format is that in the former, the
error is calculated per each time step and the latter calcu-
lates the error only for the last time step.
In (Chen et al., 2021), a multivariate model is pro-
posed to explain Bitcoin price with other economic and
technology variables, using both traditional statistical and
deep learning models. They use RNN (Recurrent Neural
Network) and RF (Random Forest) for the first stage to
detect the importance of input variables. They propose a
wide range of models for the second stage such as ARIMA
(Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average), SVR (Sup-
port Vector Regression), GA (Genetic Algorithm), LSTM
(Long Short-Term Memory), ANFIS (Adaptive Network
Fuzzy Inference System), for bitcoin forecast in different
periods.
Our research fills the gap of the lack of modern deep
learning research for predicting funds’ risk-adjusted per-
formance measured by the Sharpe ratio. The results of
our research show that deep learning and ensembling are
promising approaches to addressing the challenge of pre-
dicting mutual funds’ performance.
3. Methodology
In this section, we present the methodology employed
for this research, from cross-validation scheme, model se-
lection to model training and other techniques to ensure
the robustness of our results.
3.1. Cross-validation scheme
Cross-validation has been widely used in machine learn-
ing to estimate models’ prediction errors as described in
4

(Ruppert, 2004). This method estimates the mean out-
of-sample error, also known as the average generalization
error by (Ruppert, 2004).
For normal machine learning problems, where there is
no time dimension, k-fold cross-validation is the common
cross-validation technique applied in practice. This tech-
nique requires the dataset to be randomly divided into a
train set and a validation set, in k different settings. The
random division makes each element of the dataset exist
in the validation set exactly once and in the training set
at least once.
In time series forecasting, there is a time dimension,
and care must be taken to ensure that time-dependent
characteristics are preserved during dataset setup for model
evaluations. For example, we cannot simply and randomly
assign an element to the validation set, since this may in-
terrupt time order between observations and lead to data
leakage, where future data may be used to predict past
data.
The study of (Bergmeir and Benítez, 2012) showed that
the use of cross-validation in time series forecasting led to
a more robust model selection. In this research, we follow
the rolling origin scheme to divide our dataset into six
cross-validation splits. Our choice of six cross-validation
splits is identical to the study of (Fiorucci and Louzada,
2020).
To limit the computational costs when training
deep learning models within reasonable limits, it is beyond
the scope of our study to evaluate the effects of different
cross-validation splits on the study results.
Models are trained on each training set and then evalu-
ated on the respective validation set. The error measured
in each validation set is the estimated generalization error
for that particular fold. Averaging the generalization error
estimated for all the folds will yield the estimated general-
ization error of the model. Model selection is then carried
out by comparing average generalization errors across all
the models trained.
Specifically, our cross-validation scheme is a slightly
adjusted version of Generalized Rolling Origin Evaluation
(GROE), as described in (Fiorucci and Louzada, 2020).
Below are the properties of this GROE scheme in connec-
tion to our study:
• p denotes the number of origins, where an origin is
the index of the last observation of a train set. The
origins are referred to as n1, n2, ..., np, which can
be found recursively through the equation ni+1 =
ni + m. In this equation, m represents the number
of data points between two consecutive origins. In
our study, the number of origins p equals six, which
means original data are split in six different ways to
produce six train/validation set pairs.
• H represents the different forecast horizons, which
are 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months in our study.
• n is the length of each time series and n1 is equal
to n −H if n −H is greater than or equal a certain
threshold.
• m can be calculated as the biggest integer lower than
or equal to H/p, which is problem dependent.
We recognize that if we strictly follow GROE, this
may lead to validation sets with different sizes. We be-
lieve that setting the length of all the validation sets equal
and equal to the forecast horizon will make the valida-
tion sets represent the actual forecast dataset when ap-
plying a forecasting model in practice better. Therefore,
we adjust the method slightly by first determining the last
train/validation sets, and then working backwards to de-
termine the other train/validation sets. In our method,
the last validation set is defined to consist of the last H
observations in the dataset, and the corresponding train
set consists of all the observations in the dataset prior to
the validation set. Then we shift the origin of the last train
set, which is n−H, back in time m data points to find the
origin of the previous train sets, i.e. using ni = ni+1 −m.
This modification ensures all validation sets have the
same length, which is exactly equal to the forecast horizon.
As an example, for the forecast horizon of 18 months, our
cross-validation scheme results in the following division of
train and validation sets:
Figure 1: Train and validation sets for a forecast horizon
of 18m
3.2. Recurrent neural networks
In this research, we employ two modern types of recur-
rent neural networks (RNNs) known as LSTM and GRU
and compare their effectiveness in forecasting fund per-
formances against their statistical counterparts.
In this
section, we present the unit design and mathematics fun-
damentals of these techniques. In addition to LSTM and
GRU, we also describe the vanilla RNNs which provide the
foundation for more advanced RNN architectures.
3.2.1. Vanilla recurrent neural networks
RNNs are designed to address the problem of learning
from and predicting sequences.
They have been widely
applied in the field of natural language processing. In the
following figure and equations, we illustrate the internal
workings of RNNs. The basic RNN cell has the structure
as shown in Figure 2.
5

Figure 2: A Basic Recurrent Cell
Ht = ϕ (Ht−1 · Wh1 + Xt · Wh2 + bh)
(1)
Ot = Ht · Wo + bo
(2)
In equation 1, Ht denotes the hidden state of the RNN
cell, and Xt denotes the input of the cell at the current
time step (i.e. time step t). Wh1 and Wh2 are matrices
of weights whereas bh denotes the bias vector for the hid-
den state. ϕ is the activation function of the hidden state.
This equation describes the recurrent computation which
gives rise to the term "recurrent", where the current hid-
den state Ht is computed based on the previous hidden
state Ht−1 and the current input Xt. This recurrence in
computation leads to the ability of the hidden state Ht to
store information of the sequence up to time step t. In a
similar way, the hidden state of the next time step Ht+1
is computed based on Ht and the input Xt+1 at the next
time step.
Equation 2 shows how the output is computed using
the hidden state of the current time step. In equation 2,
Ot denotes the output of the cell at time step t, Wo is the
weight matrix, and bo represents the bias vector for the
cell output.
Even though the recurrent computation makes it pos-
sible for RNNs to carry past information into the cur-
rent time step, RNNs has limited capability in handling
long-term dependencies in sequential data. This type of
network suffers from the problems of vanishing and ex-
ploding gradients, making learning in long sequences dif-
ficult.
Vanishing gradients happen when gradients dur-
ing backpropagation become vanishingly small, and the
weights cannot be updated adequately, whereas explod-
ing gradients occur when large gradients accumulate dur-
ing backpropagation which results in unstable models as
model weights receive very large updates.
3.2.2. Long short-term memory
Long short-term memory (LSTM), introduced in (Hochre-
iter and Schmidhuber, 1997) extends the capacity of vanilla
RNNs to be able to remember and effectively handle longer
sequences.
The computation of the hidden state in an
LSTM is illustrated in Figure 3:
Figure 3: Computation of hidden state in LSTM
In Figure 3, there are three gates designed to regulate
information flow through the memory cell.
Specifically,
the input gate controls how much information to read into
the cell, the forget gate decides how much of the past infor-
mation to forget and how much to retain, and the output
gate reads output from the cell. This design enables the
cell to decide when to remember and when to ignore in-
puts, which is essential in remembering useful information
and forgetting less useful one.
Mathematically, these gates are computed as follows:
It = σ (Ht−1 · Wi1 + Xt · Wi2 + bi)
Ft = σ (Ht−1 · Wf1 + Xt · Wf2 + bf)
Ot = σ (Ht−1 · Wo1 + Xt · Wo2 + bo)
In the above equations, It, Ft and Ot represent the in-
put gate, forget gate and output gate at the current time
step t.
Xt is the input at time t and Ht−1 is the hid-
den state at the previous time step.
The Ws represent
the weight matrices and the bs are bias vectors. σ is the
sigmoid activation function that makes the values of these
gates in the range of (0, 1).
The memory cell and the hidden state are computed
as follows:
˜Ct = tanh (Ht−1 · Wc1 + Xt · Wc2 + bc)
Ct = Ft ⊙Ct−1 + It ⊙

˜Ct

Ht = Ot ⊙tanh (Ct)
In the above equations, ˜Ct represents the candidate
memory cell and Ct represent memory cell content. Similar
to the equations of the gates, Ws represent the weight
matrices and the bs are bias vectors. The computation of
the candidate memory cell is similar to those of the gates,
except that it uses the tanh activation function instead of
sigmoid.
The candidate memory cell captures both past infor-
mation from Ht−1 and information from the current input
6

Xt. The computation of memory cell content Ct is based
on past memory cell state represented by Ct−1 and the
current memory cell candidate which serves as current in-
put. The element-wise matrix multiplication denoted by
⊙makes it possible for controlling how much of past infor-
mation is forgotten (by multiplying Ft by Ct−1) and how
much of current input is retained (by multiplying It by
˜Ct). Both Ft and It use sigmoid as the activation func-
tion, which produces values in the range (0, 1) to control
how much information is discarded/retained in element-
wise matrix multiplication. For example, when values of
Ft are close to zero, the result of element-wise matrix mul-
tiplication between Ft by Ct−1 will make past information
close to zero or in other words past information become
forgotten.
The computation of the hidden state Ht depends on
the memory cell Ct and how much of the memory cell is
passed as output is controlled by the output gate Ot.
Our study uses the above described design for LSTM,
in contrast to (Hewamalage et al., 2021) which uses LSTM
with peephole connections. We also use the stacked ar-
chitectures for both LSTM and GRU, where the term
“stacked" means that different recurrent layers can be stacked
on top of each other.
3.2.3. Gated recurrent units
Gated recurrent units (GRU) (Cho et al., 2014) were
introduced almost two decades after LSTM. GRU possess
a similar but simpler architecture than that of LSTM,
which gives them the advantage of faster computation.
GRU also use gates to regulate information flow, but it
contains only the reset gate and the update gate.
The computation of the hidden state in GRU is de-
scribed in Figure 4.
Figure 4: Computation of hidden state in GRU
Zt = σ (Ht−1 · Wz1 + Xt · Wz2 + bz)
Rt = σ (Ht−1 · Wr1 + Xt · Wr2 + br)
The above two equations show the mathematical mech-
anisms of the two gates in GRU: update gate (Zt) and reset
gate (Rt). The computation of both the update gate and
reset gate at the current time step t is based on the hidden
state at the previous time step Ht−1 and the current input
Xt. The Ws are the weight matrices and bs are the bias
vectors. σ is the sigmoid activation function that makes
the values of these gates in the range of (0, 1).
The next equations show the computation of the can-
didate hidden state ( ˜Ht) and the hidden state (Ht).
˜Ht = tanh ((Rt ⊙Ht−1) · Wh1 + Xt · Wh2 + bh)
Ht = (1 −Zt) ⊙˜Ht + Zt ⊙Ht−1
The candidate hidden state at the current time step ˜Ht
captures both past information from the previous hidden
state Ht−1 and information from the current input Xt.
The element-wise matrix multiplication of Ht−1 and Rt
makes it possible for the reset gate to control how much
of past information in Ht−1 is retained as the value of Rt
is in the range (0, 1). If, for example, Rt equals one, all
of the information of Ht−1 is retained, and if Rt equals
zero, all previously hidden state information is discarded.
The candidate hidden state, therefore, contains the current
input information plus parts of the previously hidden state
information as controlled by the reset gate.
In the next equation, the current hidden state Ht is
computed from the current candidate hidden state ˜Ht and
the hidden state from the previous time step Ht−1. The
update gate is used to control how much information from
these two components is passed to the current hidden state.
When the update gate Zt is close to one, the current hid-
den state takes most of the information from the previous
hidden state whereas when the update gate Zt is close to
zero, the current hidden state takes most of the informa-
tion from the current candidate hidden state.
A previous study conducted to evaluate GRU and LSTM
algorithms on the sequence modelling tasks of polyphonic
music modelling and speech signal modelling found GRU
to be comparable to LSTM (Chung et al., 2014). How-
ever, it is unclear which type of these algorithms performs
better in forecasting fund performance. Therefore, our re-
search aims to evaluate and compare these two deep learn-
ing methods in the context of fund performance forecast-
ing. Our study implements these methods using the Keras
and Tensorflow libraries in Python where Bayesian opti-
mization is used for hyper-parameter optimization, which
will be described in a later section.
7

3.2.4. Ensemble methods
Ensemble methods are ways to combine forecasts from
different models with the aim to improve models’ perfor-
mance. There are different methods to combine forecasts.
The simplest method would be averaging the model pre-
dictions for different algorithms. Other methods can make
use of weighted averages.
The study of (Fiorucci and
Louzada, 2020) combines time series forecast models with
the weights proportional to the quality of each model’s
in-sample predictions in a cross-validation process. Their
findings reveal that forecast results improve compared to
methods that use equal weights for combination. However,
all of the methods used for combination in their study are
statistical methods, and in-sample prediction qualities are
used to determine weights.
Our approach in ensembling forecast results is different
from the above study in that in addition to combining fore-
casts of top-performing models, we also combine forecasts
for models belonging to different approaches, i.e. all deep
learning models combined with all statistical models. Ac-
cording to (Petropoulos et al., 2022), combined forecasts
work more effectively if the methods that generate fore-
casts are diverse, which leads to fewer correlated errors.
Another difference is that we use out-of-sample model pre-
diction qualities to determine weights, which we believe
are more objectively representative of models’ performance
than using in-sample prediction qualities. The reason is
that deep learning models may easily overfit the training
data and produce high-quality in-sample predictions while
the corresponding performances can significantly drop on
out-of-sample data.
In this study, we compare three ensembling methods:
• The first method uses equal weights in averaging
model forecasts. This is the simple form for com-
bining forecasts, known as simple averages.
• The second method calculates a weighted average
of model forecasts where the weights are inversely
proportional to the final out-of-sample MASE (our
main forecasting performance metric used for evalu-
ation of forecasting models) result of each algorithm.
The weights represent the overall (or global) average
out-of-sample model quality across all time series for
each algorithm.
• The third method calculates a weighted average of
model forecasts where the weights are inversely pro-
portional to the average out-of-sample MASE result
of each algorithm for the particular time series in
question. The weights represent the specific (or lo-
cal) average out-of-sample model quality for each
time series in each algorithm.
3.3. Traditional statistical models for time series forecast-
ing
To compare against deep learning algorithms, we select
three well-known traditional statistical methods for time
series forecasting, which are ARIMA, ETS, and Theta, as
well as the Naive method, which is known to work well for
numerous financial and economic time series. The Theta
method of forecasting, introduced by (Assimakopoulos and
Nikolopoulos, 2000), is a special case of simple exponen-
tial smoothing with drift. These four methods are recom-
mended by (Petropoulos et al., 2022) when benchmarking
new forecasting methods. Further detail about the four
models can be seen in (Hyndman and Athanasopoulos,
2018).
In our experiments, we use an optimized version of the
Theta model proposed by (Fiorucci et al., 2016). We use
the well-known forecast R package introduced in (Hynd-
man and Khandakar, 2008) for training ETS, ARIMA and
Naive models, and the forecTheta R package for training
the optimized Theta models.
These models are trained
using the parallel processing capabilities provided in the
furrr R package.
4. Experiment setup
4.1. Data description
Our dataset started with the monthly returns of more
than 1200 mutual funds investing in listed large-cap equi-
ties in the United States available on Morningstar Direct.
Daily returns series are not available. We required at least
20 years of data up to October 2021 and obtained 634
funds.
These funds are relatively homogeneous as they
share the same investment strategy and are all domiciled
in the United States. From the monthly returns series, we
computed the annualised Sharpe ratios for each fund on
a rolling basis. Table 1 summarises the statistics of these
time series.
Mean
Sd
Min
Max
us45890c7395
Return
4.351
27.069
-129.960
62.540
Sharpe
0.213
0.542
-1.444
2.132
us5529815731
Return
7.522
23.741
-97.820
70.040
Sharpe
0.295
0.555
-1.430
1.790
us82301q7759
Return
8.140
22.494
-100.080
69.620
Sharpe
0.301
0.571
-1.444
2.507
us6409175063
Return
8.804
29.045
-114.100
93.900
Sharpe
0.304
0.584
-1.288
3.129
us1253254072
Return
15.065
35.222
-156.560
123.460
Sharpe
0.276
0.533
-1.188
4.768
Riskfree
1.464
1.713
0.011
6.356
Overall
Return
8.226
23.272
-176.220
126.320
Overall
Sharpe
0.290
0.556
-2.446
4.768
Table 1: Time series descriptive statistics
Looking at the details, the table illustrates five fund ex-
amples with the annualised return (percent) and the an-
nualised Sharpe ratio, in terms of their mean, standard
deviation, minimum and maximum values. The five funds
are respectively the minimum average return, 25th per-
centile, 50th percentile, 75th percentile and maximum av-
erage return over the period. The risk-free rate of return is
the market yield on the 3-month U.S. Treasury Securities.
8

The last two rows represent the overall average return and
respectively the Sharpe ratio of all the funds used in the
sample.
Within the primary “large-cap equities" strategy that
categorizes the funds, there are three major sub-strategies,
namely growth, value and blend. Those adopting a “growth"
sub-strategy focuses on growth stocks listed in the United
States, i.e., stocks with strong earnings growth potential,
whereas “value" sub-strategy means the investment targets
value stocks, those evaluated to be undervalued. “Blend"
represents a mix of growth and value sub-strategies. The
study sample of 634 funds includes all the three sub-categories
mentioned above.
4.2. Data preprocessing
4.2.1. Data splitting
The time series data are split into 6 train and vali-
dation sets using the cross-validation scheme described in
section 3.1 of Methodology. This cross-validation scheme
allows for robust and reliable model selection based on
their average out-of-sample performances.
4.2.2. Removing trend and seasonality
We transform each time series in the train set of each
cross-validation split into its stationary form by two com-
monly used techniques known as log transformation and
differencing.
Log transformation stabilizes the variance
of the time series (Hyndman and Athanasopoulos, 2013).
Since negative Sharpe ratios exist, an offset is added into
all time series, to ensure each one of them is all positive,
before applying log transformation.
While log transformation is effective in handling time
series variances, differencing can help remove changes in
the level of a time series and is therefore effective in elimi-
nating (or reducing) trend and seasonality (Hyndman and
Athanasopoulos, 2013).
Subsequent to log transforma-
tions, we examine each time series to see which one needs
differencing and the number of differences required to trans-
form them into stationary form. The result shows that the
majority of the time series have been stationary after log
transformation and 68 of them need to be applied first
differencing. These 68 time series are applied first differ-
encing in each cross-validation split and their last train
observation is saved for later inverse transformation back
to their original scales.
4.2.3. Data postprocessing
Since each time series has been transformed prior to
entering the modelling stage, the models’ outputs are not
in the original scale and this does not allow for a direct
comparison of the models’ outputs with the validation sets
to obtain error metrics.
Therefore, models’ predictions
are transformed back to the original scales following the
inverse order that we apply in the preprocessing steps. In
detail, predictions for those time series that are previously
differenced receive inverse differencing; after this step, all
time series are inverse log-transformed, and then the offset
that was previously added is subtracted from each time
series.
4.2.4. Forecasting multiple outputs
Unlike univariate statistical methods, deep learning al-
gorithms can potentially take advantage of cross-learning,
in which patterns from multiple time series are learnt to
improve forecast accuracy for individual time series. In
this work, we aim to compare forecasting methods for pre-
dicting 634 mutual funds, which involve 634 time series of
a homogeneous group of funds. Each time series requires
multi-step-ahead forecasts for the applicable forecast hori-
zon. Therefore, we approach the problem as a multiple-
output and multi-step-ahead forecasting problem, where
inputs are fed into the neural networks, and after train-
ing, vectors of outputs are produced directly by the model
for six, nine, 12, 18 and 24 months ahead. This strategy
has been demonstrated effective by the works of (Taieb
et al., 2012) and (Wen et al., 2017) and also adopted by
(Hewamalage et al., 2021).
Supervised deep learning maps inputs to outputs, where
in our time series context, inputs are fed into the model
and outputs produced by the model following a sliding win-
dow approach. This sliding window scheme is also used in
the work of (Hewamalage et al., 2021). This approach con-
siders each data sample as consisting of an input window
of past observations of all time series that is mapped to an
output window of future observations which immediately
follow the input window in terms of time order relation-
ship. In our experiments, each train set is preprocessed to
form multiple sliding input and output windows with these
characteristics, where each sliding window of the next con-
secutive time step has the same form as the previous one
but is shifted by a one-time step. This scheme allows for
the use of past (lagged) time series in predicting future
time series in each data observation.
As patterns are learnt from inputs to predict outputs,
we believe it is necessary to set the length of input se-
quences to be at least equal to the length of output se-
quences. This would suggest that deep learning algorithms
have sufficient information from the past to predict the fu-
ture. The length of each input window should not be too
large, since the use of too long input windows would signif-
icantly reduce the number of training samples and prob-
ably affect model performance. In our study, we set the
lengths of input windows equal to the lengths of the fore-
cast horizon plus two months, given the lengths of output
windows are determined by the chosen forecast horizons.
These choices balance the need for covering sufficient in-
formation in the input windows and the need to retain as
many training samples as possible.
4.3. Training deep learning models
The performance of deep learning models depends on
a number of factors, including, among others, the right
9

choice of the loss function, the optimization procedure
within the training loop, and the outer optimization pro-
cedure that selects the best combination (or configuration)
of hyper-parameters. Our training procedure emphasizes
extensive hyper-parameter tuning based on careful consid-
eration for hyper-parameter configurations. This section
describes in detail these training and optimization proce-
dures.
4.3.1. Loss function
We use RMSE as the loss function for training deep
learning models. This loss function will be optimized when
training mini-batches of data samples. This type of loss
function has the advantage of restricting large, outlier er-
rors, since large errors may result in really large squared
errors. This loss function is also the metric that we opti-
mize in the Bayesian optimization loops.
4.3.2. Hyper-parameter search setup
Hyper-parameters refer to the parameters that mod-
els cannot learn during the training process but may have
an effect on models’ performance. For RNNs, the number
of hidden layers, units in each hidden layer, and learning
rate, etc., are important hyper-parameters. The process
of identifying which hyper-parameter configuration results
in optimal generalization performance is known as hyper-
parameter optimization. We employ Bayesian optimiza-
tion for this optimization procedure, which will be detailed
in the next section.
In our experiments, the following hyper-parameters are
optimized:
• Learning rate
• Number of hidden layers
• Units in a hidden layer
• Dropout rate for inputs
• Dropout rate for hidden layers
• Mini-batch size
• Whether to use batch normalization or not
• If using batch normalization, placing it either before
or after dropout layers
• Activation functions
• Weight decay
• Number of epochs
Unlike (Hewamalage et al., 2021), we consider the dropout
rate as an important hyper-parameter for optimization.
Dropout is an effective technique for addressing the over-
fitting problem in deep neural networks (Srivastava et al.,
2014). This technique may be even more appropriate for
time series forecasting, where datasets are usually rela-
tively small compared to those in other fields such as NLP
or Computer Vision.
We also provide an option to employ batch normaliza-
tion (Ioffe and Szegedy, 2015) to further regularize and im-
prove training speed, which allows for the possible training
of deeper networks. Originally, batch normalization was
understood to work by reducing internal covariate shifts.
Later research demonstrated this concept was a misun-
derstanding. The work of (Santurkar et al., 2018) clari-
fied that the effectiveness of batch normalization lay in its
ability to make the optimization landscape significantly
smoother.
In the training process that uses batch normalization,
this normalization is performed for each mini-batch. By
using batch normalization, we can use higher learning rates,
and be more relaxed about network initialization. As a
regularizer, in some cases, we may not need to use dropout
if batch normalization is already in use. In our work, it
is, however, uncertain that batch normalization can re-
place the need for dropout, especially when our training
data are limited. Therefore, we choose to optimize both
of these hyper-parameters.
There is also additional consideration for the order of
batch normalization and dropout in actual implementa-
tion. The combination of batch normalization and dropout
works well in some cases but decreases the model perfor-
mance in others, and thus their order should be carefully
considered (Li et al., 2019). To work around this issue,
and to possibly take advantage of both dropout and batch
normalization, in our experiments, we add another hyper-
parameter that controls whether batch normalization lay-
ers are added to the model before or after dropout layers.
The range of dropout rates in our experiments includes
zero, which means the case of no dropout is covered.
Another regularization method tuned is weight decay.
Weight decay, also called L2 regularization, is probably
the most common technique for regularizing parametric
machine learning models (Zhang et al., 2021). This tech-
nique works by adding a penalty term (or regularization
term) into the model’s loss function so that the learning
process will minimize the prediction loss plus the penalty
term. The updated loss function with weight decay is then
given by:
L = Error +
ψ
p
X
i=1
w2
i
|
{z
}
L2 regularization
Applied to our context, Error denotes the root mean square
error from the network outputs, wi represents the train-
able parameters of the network with p the number of all
such parameters.
Another important hyper-parameter is the number of
hidden layers, which controls the network depth. The use
of regularization methods described above can help reduce
models’ overfitting, which as a result may allow for deeper
networks to be trained. Therefore, we set the range of the
10

number of hidden layers from one to five, with five hidden
layers representing a quite deep network given the limited
amount of training data.
We use Adam as the optimizer for the model train-
ing process. Adam is a computationally efficient gradient-
based optimization method for optimizing stochastic ob-
jective functions, which is demonstrated to work well in
practice and compares favorably to other stochastic opti-
mization approaches (Kingma and Ba, 2014).
In addition to the above, we choose to optimize other
hyper-parameters including learning rate, mini-batch size,
units which represent the dimensionality of the output
space in a hidden layer, number of epochs, and activation
functions. For each numeric hyper-parameter, as appro-
priate, we try to include a wide range of values for the
search, without making the computation cost too high.
For example, the learning rate ranges between 0.001 and
0.1, and the dropout rate ranges between 0.0 and 1.0. To
control the computation cost within reasonable limits, we
limit the range of the number of epochs to between 1 and
30.
4.3.3. Hyper-parameter optimization
Prior studies have investigated different methods for
executing this optimization procedure. Among these, grid
search, random search and Bayesian optimization provide
three alternatives for optimizing hyper-parameters. Bayesian
optimization has been demonstrated to be more effective
and will be chosen in our experiments.
4.3.4. Grid search
The grid search method finds the optimal hyper-parameter
configuration based on a predetermined grid of values.
This requires careful consideration in the choice of grid
values, as there might be no limit to the number of possi-
ble hyper-parameter configurations. For example, a learn-
ing rate that ranges between 0.001 and 0.1 can take count-
less possible values, and when combined with several other
hyper-parameters, the search space would be so vast, such
that covering all possible configurations in the search is im-
possible. To limit the choice of hyper-parameters in a grid,
we can rely on expert knowledge and experience, but this
cannot guarantee success in many cases, especially when
there are a large number of hyper-parameters for tuning
in deep learning models.
4.3.5. Random search
Random search narrows down the number of possible
hyper-parameters to search by selecting a random subset of
all possible configurations. By narrowing down the search
space, this algorithm reduces training time and has proved
to be effective in many cases (Putatunda and Rama, 2019).
The research of (Bergstra and Bengio, 2012) and (Pu-
tatunda and Rama, 2019) show that random search is more
effective than grid search as a hyper-parameter optimiza-
tion method.
4.3.6. Bayesian optimization
Bayesian optimization (BO) is a modern hyper-parameter
optimization technique that is effective for searching through
a large search space that may involve a large number of
hyper-parameters.
It has demonstrated superior perfor-
mance to the random search and grid search approach in a
variety of settings (Wu et al., 2019; Putatunda and Rama,
2019).
The essence of BO is the construction of a probabilistic
surrogate model that models the true objective function,
and the use of this surrogate model together with the ac-
quisition function to guide the search process. Its proce-
dure first defines an objective function to optimize, which
may be the loss function, or some other function deemed
more appropriate for model selection. In training models
where the evaluation of the objective function is costly,
the surrogate which is cheaper to evaluate is used as an
approximation of the objective function (Bergstra et al.,
2011).
The whole process of Bayesian optimization is sequen-
tial by nature since the determination of the next promis-
ing points to search is dependent on what is already known
about the previously searched points. In addition to the
surrogate model, another important component of BO is
the acquisition function, which is designed to guide the
search toward potential low values of the objective func-
tion (Archetti and Candelieri, 2019). The acquisition func-
tion allows for the balance between exploitation and ex-
ploration, where exploitation means that searching is per-
formed near the region of the current best points and ex-
ploration refers to the searching in the regions that have
not been explored.
The initial probabilistic surrogate model is constructed
by fitting a probability model over a sample of points se-
lected by random search or some other sampling method.
In the next step, a new promising point to search is iden-
tified using the acquisition function. The objective func-
tion is then evaluated and then the probabilistic surrogate
model is updated with the new information. The next step
uses the acquisition function to suggest a further promis-
ing point. This process is repeated in a sequential manner
until some termination condition is satisfied.
Gaussian Process (GP) is a popular choice for the sur-
rogate model. The GP can be understood as a collection
of random variables which satisfies the condition that if
any finite number of these random variables are combined,
the result will be a joint Gaussian distribution (Archetti
and Candelieri, 2019). . Another surrogate model is Tree-
structured Parzen Estimator (TPE). Unlike GP which mod-
els P(y|x) directly, the TPE approach models P(x|y) and
P(y) (Bergstra et al., 2011), where x represents hyper-
parameters, and y represents the associated evaluation
score of the objective function. The hyper-parameter search
space can be defined by a generative process, of which
the TPE replaces the prior distributions of the hyper-
parameter configuration with specific non-parametric den-
11

sities; the substitutions become a learning algorithm that
then creates various densities over the search space (Bergstra
et al., 2011).
The TPE algorithm is implemented in the well-known
hyperopt Python package in (Bergstra et al., 2013). In our
experiments, we utilize this library for hyper-parameter
optimization using the TPE algorithm of the Bayesian op-
timization framework, where the number of iterations is set
to 800 for each deep learning method. All deep learning
models are trained using a server with the following char-
acteristics: 8-core CPU, 16 GB RAM and Linux Ubuntu
20.04.4.
4.4. Forecast accuracy measures
In this section, we present the metrics used to com-
pute forecast accuracy that enables performance compar-
ison among the models studied.
Let Xt denote the observation at time t and Ft denote
the forecast of Yt. Then the forecast error et = Xt −Ft.
Let’s have k forecasts and that observation of data at each
forecast period.
We use the same notation as in (Hyndman and Koehler,
2006) mean (xt) to denote the sample mean of {xt} over
the sample. Analogously, we use the median (xt) for the
sample median.
The most commonly used scale-dependent measures
are based on absolute errors or squared errors.
Let Xt
denote the observation at time t and Ft denote the fore-
cast of Yt. Then the forecast error et = Xt −Ft. Let Mean
Square Error MSE = mean
 e2
l

.
Root Mean Square Error:
RMSE =
q
mean (e2
l )
Mean Absolute Error:
MAE = mean (|et|)
Often, the RMSE is preferred to the MSE as it is on the
same scale as the data. Historically, the RMSE and MSE
have been popular, largely because of their theoretical rel-
evance in statistical modelling. However, they are more
sensitive to outliers than MAE or MDAE (Median Abso-
lute Error).
Compared to absolute error, percentage errors have
the advantage of being scale-independent, and so are fre-
quently used to compare forecast performance across dif-
ferent datasets. Let defined percentage error as pt = 100et/Xt.
The Symmetric Median Absolute Percentage Error:
SMDAPE = median (200 |Xt −Ft| / (Xt + Ft))
The problems arising from small values of Xt may be
less severe for SMDAPE. However, usually when Xt is close
to zero, Fl is also likely to be close to zero.
Thus, the
measure still involves division by a number close to zero.
Scaled errors is defined as:
qt =
et
1
n−1
Pn
i=2 |Xi −Xi−1|
which is independent of the scale of the data. A scaled
error is less than one if it arises from a better forecast
than the average one-step Naive forecast computed in-
sample. Conversely, it is greater than one if the forecast is
worse than the average one-step Naive forecast computed
in-sample (see Hyndman and Koehler, 2006).
The famous scaled error is the Mean Absolute Scaled
Error:
MASE = mean (|qt|)
When MASE < 1, the proposed method gives, on aver-
age, smaller errors than the one-step errors from the Naive
method. If multi-step forecasts are being computed, it is
possible to scale by the in-sample MAE computed from
multi-step naïve forecasts.
The recent paper of (Kim and Kim, 2016) investigated
and provided practical advantages of the new accuracy
measure MAAPE, the mean arctangent absolute percent-
age error:
MAAPE = 1
N
N
X
t=1
AAPEt = 1
N
N
X
t=1
arctan

Xt −Ft
Xt


Although MAAPE is finite when the response variable
(i.e. Xt ) equals zero, it has a nice trigonometric repre-
sentation. However, because MAAPE’s value is expressed
in radians, this makes MAAPE less intuitive. Note that
MAAPE does not have a symmetric version, since divi-
sion by zero is no longer a concern. The MAAPE is also
scale-free because its values are expressed in radians.
5. Findings and analysis
In this section, we run and train six models for five
different forecast horizons, i.e., 30 models in total. The
forecast horizons include 6 months, 9 months, 12 months,
18 months, and 24 months. Among six models are two
deep learning models (LSTM, GRU), three traditional sta-
tistical (ARIMA, ETS, Theta), and the Naive model as a
benchmark.
The first subsection below presents the average results
for five different forecast horizons using the six models and
the ensemble models.
The second subsection illustrates
further details using the 18-month forecast horizon.
5.1. Average of multiple forecast horizons
5.1.1. Comparison of deep learning vs statistical models
Table 2 provides the averages of the accuracy measures
over five forecast horizons for each of five accuracy mea-
sures (MASE, RMSE, MAE, SMDAPE and MAAPE) and
each of six models. It is evident that the LTSM outper-
forms all other models, then the GRU, resulting in the deep
12

Algorithm
MASE
RMSE
MAE
SMDAPE
MAAPE
LSTM
1.510
0.441
0.363
74.204
59.340
GRU
1.546
0.453
0.371
81.481
59.791
ARIMA
1.815
0.533
0.435
96.504
63.207
ETS
1.835
0.535
0.441
105.028
65.012
Theta
1.961
0.566
0.471
106.827
67.567
Naive
4.176
1.938
1.437
120.213
75.317
Table 2: Average accuracy measure of five forecast hori-
zons
learning models taking the first place. The next places are
the ARIMA model, ETS, and the Theta, respectively. The
worst model surprisingly is the Naive model. Regardless
of the forecast horizon, the LSTM model is the best model
on average and produces the most consistent result across
different accuracy measures, as shown in Table 6 in the
appendix.
Figure 5: Comparison of MASE across all algorithms and
forecast horizons.
Figure 5 shows the MASE accuracy measure and RMSE
and MAE are reported in Table 6 in the appendix. The
results confirm the outperformance of the LSTM model as
its MASE stays lowest across six models and the differ-
ent forecast horizons, except for the six-month horizon for
which GRU slightly outperformed LSTM. Across the five
horizons, LSTM produces the lowest MASE (1.363) for the
forecast horizon of 12 months.
Table 6 reports RMSE, MAE, SMDAPE and MAAPE
results. We conclude that LSTM is the best model across
different algorithms and across different forecast horizons.
Again, the 12-month horizon receives the best forecasting
accuracy for the first two metrics and the nine-month for
the last two. The Naive model consistently produces the
least accuracy across algorithms and forecast horizons, es-
pecially the longest one of 24 months.
5.1.2. Ensemble models
Algorithm
MASE
RMSE
MAE
SMDAPE
MAAPE
All algorithms
simple average
2.208
0.678
0.530
94.532
63.984
global weights
1.852
0.553
0.445
91.495
62.839
local weights
1.785
0.529
0.428
91.004
62.567
Deep learning
simple average
1.469
0.431
0.353
74.315
58.429
global weights
1.468
0.430
0.352
74.261
58.418
local weights
2.056
0.594
0.493
127.001
67.196
Stats
simple average
2.721
0.841
0.654
110.821
68.312
global weights
2.119
0.631
0.509
108.158
66.826
local weights
2.074
0.609
0.498
122.540
66.737
Table 3: Average accuracy measure of ensemble method.
Table 3 provides the results of the ensemble methods
applied to combine forecasts by different groups of mod-
els: all models (All algorithms in the table), LSTM and
GRU (Deep learning), and statistical models (Stats). For
each ensembling group, we use a set of combination meth-
ods including simple average, weighted average with global
weights (referred to as global weights in the table), and
weighted average with local weights (referred to as local
weights in the table).
The best results come from the ensemble models of
LSTM and GRU. The second best is All algorithms. The
ensembles of All algorithms provide better accuracy for all
error metrics than ensembling using only three statistical
methods.
Furthermore, ensembling provides lower error
metrics than the individual ones for deep learning meth-
ods for simple average and global weights methods. For
example, the average - mean (across five forecast horizons)
of MASE for LSTM and GRU are respectively 1.510 and
1.546, whereas the highest mean of ensemble methods of
simple average and global weights are only 1.469 and 1.468.
The same results are also obtained for other error metrics
such as RMSE, MAE, SMDAPE, and MAAPE. However,
the local weights ensemble of GRU and LSTM are worse
than the individual ones (true with MASE, RMSE, MAE,
SMDAPE, and MAAPE), so the ensemble model with All
algorithms has resulted in better accuracy measures.
While the ensemble of All algorithms provides much
better accuracy measures than the ensemble of statistical
models, it is not as good as that of the original individual
deep learning models.
Initially, one would expect that the ensemble of all
models should provide the best accuracy measure as, the-
oretically, a more diverse set of models can result in fewer
correlated errors. However, as shown by our analysis, the
ensembles of GRU and LSTM using global weights provide
the best model with the lowest mean of all error metrics.
The relative performance of ensembling methods dif-
fers across ensembling groups and forecast horizons. For
All algorithms ensembling models, across all forecast hori-
zons (see table 7), the local weights methods provide the
lowest accuracy measures. For the ensembling of the deep
learning models, the best choice is the global weight for all
13

the forecast horizons, except the 24-month horizon. For
the ensembling of the Stats model, the choice is the global
weight for only the 6, 9 and 12-month periods.
Further details on each forecast horizon for six original
models and nine ensemble models (three ensemble com-
binations and three weighting methods) are provided in
Tables 6 and 7 in the appendix.
The next subsection further illustrates the detailed re-
sults obtained for the forecast horizon of 18 months. De-
tailed analysis for other forecast horizons can be performed
in a similar manner using the results provided in the ap-
pendices.
5.2. Forecast horizon of 18 months
5.2.1. Comparison of deep learning vs statistical models
For each algorithm, we first calculate the average accu-
racy metrics for each time series across the cross-validation
splits. The results for all time series of an algorithm are
then averaged to yield the final metrics’ values represent-
ing the performance of that particular algorithm. For the
latter step, we also report the median and standard devi-
ation in addition to the mean.
Table 4 presents the accuracy metrics measured for two
methods of Deep learning (LSTM, GRU) and three statis-
tical methods (ARIMA, ETS, and Theta) and the bench-
mark model Naive.
Algorithm
LSTM
GRU
ARIMA
ETS
Theta
Naive
MASE
mean
1.425
1.428
1.539
1.721
1.762
2.760
median
1.374
1.384
1.500
1.700
1.699
1.684
sd
0.177
0.153
0.172
0.159
0.225
3.234
RMSE
mean
0.422
0.422
0.454
0.503
0.513
0.830
median
0.415
0.412
0.445
0.498
0.498
0.497
sd
0.045
0.044
0.044
0.043
0.053
1.019
MAE
mean
0.342
0.343
0.370
0.414
0.424
0.660
median
0.334
0.335
0.363
0.411
0.411
0.408
sd
0.038
0.033
0.037
0.034
0.049
0.765
SMDAPE
mean
95.775
109.261
111.320
133.133
132.561
137.438
median
88.499
108.577
107.999
130.480
129.424
131.305
sd
20.007
13.229
19.848
10.339
10.804
17.906
MAAPE
mean
74.979
76.324
77.763
81.963
82.685
85.286
median
74.674
75.891
76.613
82.901
83.061
82.188
sd
3.839
3.825
4.402
3.217
3.873
12.389
Table 4: Mean accuracy measures of six forecasting models
of 18 months
Overall, LSTM has the best performance with the small-
est mean, median and standard error for almost all accu-
racy metrics except for the SMDAPE metric for which the
GRU model yields a lower mean and median. The results
clearly show that LSTM is significantly superior to the
other four forecasting methods. While ARIMA is the best-
performing traditional statistical approach, it produces a
much lower accuracy level than the GRU model. The met-
rics’ median and the standard error confirm the same ob-
servation. Therefore in the following table, we present only
the mean value of five different accuracy metrics.
It can be concluded that the methods of deep learn-
ing provide significantly more accurate forecast than the
traditional statistical ones, which confirms our research
hypothesis.
5.2.2. Ensemble models for the 18-month horizon
Algorithm
MASE
RMSE
MAE
SMDAPE
MAAPE
All algorithms
simple average
1.535
0.463
0.369
111.130
76.021
global weights
1.513
0.455
0.363
110.183
75.772
local weights
1.469
0.440
0.353
109.933
75.565
Deep learning
simple average
1.322
0.393
0.318
96.948
73.896
global weights
1.322
0.393
0.318
96.939
73.900
local weights
1.519
0.472
0.365
141.321
74.531
Stats
simple average
1.794
0.536
0.431
131.529
79.995
global weights
1.756
0.524
0.422
130.779
79.70
local weights
1.639
0.493
0.394
142.974
77.915
Table 5: Accuracy measures of Ensemble models of 18
months
The best results come from the ensemble models of
GRU and LSTM, then All algorithms ensembling and Stats
ensembling groups. Furthermore, ensembling provides lower
error metrics than the individual ones for deep learning
methods for simple average and global weights methods.
For example, the means of MASE for LSTM and GRU are
respectively 1.425 and 1.428, whereas the lowest mean of
simple average and global weights is only 1.322. The same
results are also obtained for other accuracy measures such
as RMSE, MAE, SMDAPE, and MAAPE. However, the
local weights ensemble of GRU and LSTM are worse than
the individual ones (true with MASE, RMSE, MAE and
SMDAPE).
6. Conclusion
The most interesting purpose of this study is to address
the challenge of forecasting the performance of multiple
mutual funds simultaneously using modern deep learning
approaches, with a comparison against popular traditional
statistical approaches. The deep learning approaches are
studied from the cross-learning perspective, which means
information from various time series is used to improve
predictions of individual time series, and no external fea-
tures are added to the models. In addition, we use differ-
ent ensemble methods to combine forecasts generated by
models of traditional and modern approaches. The results
show that the ranking order of model quality for the stud-
ied methods are Ensemble of deep learning models, LSTM,
GRU, ARIMA, ETS, Theta, and Naive.
The results among the ensemble methods vary depend-
ing on which models are combined. The best model comes
from the ensemble using weighted averages using global
weights of LSTM and GRU models.
14

In our study, both LSTM and GRU models are trained
with Bayesian optimization, a modern approach for hyper-
parameter optimization that can be effective when eval-
uating the model for individual configurations of hyper-
parameters is costly, a property particularly true for deep
learning problems. In this paper, we have outlined a de-
tailed methodology for training these deep learning mod-
els using Bayesian optimization, which we believe could be
valuable for other research.
We conclude that deep learning models and their en-
sembling offer promising solutions to the dilemma question
of forecasting the performance of multiple mutual funds
measured by Sharpe ratios.
7. Appendix
Algorithm
6m
9m
12m
18m
24m
MASE
LSTM
1.863
1.483
1.363
1.425
1.417
GRU
1.835
1.587
1.453
1.428
1.429
Arima
2.252
2.035
1.779
1.539
1.470
ETS
2.073
1.726
2.104
1.721
1.552
Theta
2.055
1.687
2.119
1.762
2.183
Naive
2.977
3.517
2.302
2.760
18.326
RMSE
LSTM
0.516
0.438
0.414
0.422
0.416
GRU
0.519
0.462
0.443
0.422
0.418
ARIMA
0.637
0.619
0.529
0.454
0.428
ETS
0.576
0.522
0.610
0.503
0.461
Theta
0.574
0.504
0.613
0.513
0.628
Naive
0.890
1.021
0.668
0.830
6.280
MAE
LSTM
0.447
0.356
0.328
0.342
0.340
GRU
0.439
0.381
0.349
0.343
0.343
ARIMA
0.539
0.488
0.427
0.370
0.353
ETS
0.496
0.414
0.505
0.414
0.373
Theta
0.492
0 .405
0.509
0.424
0.524
Naive
0.715
0.847
0.553
0.660
4.409
SMDAPE
LSTM
50.581
42.983
60.205
95.775
121.474
GRU
56.180
45.544
73.905
109.261
122.516
ARIMA
71.258
76.036
99.108
111.320
124.797
ETS
59.843
55.429
133.069
133.133
143.664
Theta
56.510
53.094
132.822
132.561
159.146
Naive
73.452
85.090
136.191
137.438
168.894
MAAPE
LSTM
43.561
40.625
56.486
74.979
81.050
GRU
40.669
43.733
56.506
76.324
81.720
ARIMA
46.255
45.339
63.897
77.763
82.783
ETS
45.489
41.978
71.679
81.963
83.952
Theta
45.335
42.205
71.980
82.685
95.627
Naive
51.922
59.664
72.535
85.286
107.177
Table 6: Accuracy measures across 6 algorithms
and five forecast horizons
8. Acknowledgement
We acknowledge the support from Hanoi University for
providing a server for training models, Ms Hoang Anh and
Algorithm
MASE
RMSE
MAE
SMDAPE
MAAPE
6m
All algorithms
simple average
2.026
0.566
0.485
57.088
44.819
global weights
2.017
0.562
0.483
56.973
44.700
local weights
2.011
0.560
0.482
56.818
44.655
Deep learning
simple average
1.737
0.486
0.416
49.372
39.781
global weights
1.737
0.486
0.416
49.378
39.771
local weights
3.026
0.817
0.725
118.567
59.910
Stats
simple average
2.206
0.623
0.528
62.855
47.206
global weights
2.195
0.618
0.526
62.800
47.143
local weights
2.546
0.694
0.610
86.404
51.459
9m
All algorithms
simple average
1.754
0.524
0.422
51.380
43.182
global weights
1.715
0.513
0.412
50.520
42.522
local weights
1.689
0.506
0.406
49.718
42.029
Deep learning
simple average
1.526
0.446
0.366
44.548
42.095
global weights
1.524
0.446
0.366
44.508
42.042
local weights
2.406
0.696
0.578
101.304
53.860
Stats
simple average
2.040
0.604
0.490
65.303
47.650
global weights
1.959
0.582
0.470
62.085
46.262
local weights
2.104
0.626
0.505
82.616
46.953
12m
All algorithms
simple average
1.699
0.507
0.408
93.867
63.387
global weights
1.684
0.503
0.404
92.321
63.099
local weights
1.680
0.502
0.404
92.168
62.985
Deep learning
simple average
1.365
0.419
0.328
61.133
55.451
global weights
1.363
0.419
0.328
60.908
55.453
local weights
1.948
0.558
0.468
125.655
70.640
Stats
simple average
2.009
0.588
0.483
127.343
69.327
global weights
2.003
0.586
0.481
126.859
69.202
local weights
2.039
0.590
0.490
139.245
70.686
18m
All algorithms
simple average
1.535
0.463
0.369
111.130
76.021
global weights
1.513
0.455
0.363
110.183
75.772
local weights
1.469
0.440
0.353
109.933
75.565
Deep learning
simple average
1.322
0.393
0.318
96.948
73.896
global weights
1.322
0.393
0.318
96.939
73.900
local weights
1.519
0.472
0.365
141.321
74.531
Stats
simple average
1.794
0.536
0.431
131.529
79.995
global weights
1.756
0.524
0.422
130.779
79.70
local weights
1.639
0.493
0.394
142.974
77.915
24m
All algorithms
simple average
4.025
1.329
0.968
159.198
92.513
global weights
2.331
0.729
0.560
147.479
88.100
local weights
2.073
0.634
0.498
146.383
87.601
Deep learning
simple average
1.395
0.409
0.335
119.573
80.923
global weights
1.395
0.409
0.335
119.573
80.924
local weights
1.382
0.430
0.332
148.157
77.038
Stats
simple average
5.558
1.853
1.337
167.076
97.383
global weights
2.683
0.843
0.645
158.265
91.822
local weights
2.042
0.640
0.490
161.460
86.667
Table 7: Accuracy measures of Ensemble models
15

Mr Nguyen Ngoc Hieu for their assistance in the initial
phase of the project.
References
Ahmed, N. K., Atiya, A. F., Gayar, N. E., and El-Shishiny, H. (2010).
An empirical comparison of machine learning models for time se-
ries forecasting. Econometric Reviews, 29(5-6):594–621.
Archetti, F. and Candelieri, A. (2019). Bayesian optimization and
data science. Springer.
Arnold, T. R., Ling, D. C., and Naranjo, A. (2019). Private equity
real estate funds: returns, risk exposures, and persistence. The
Journal of Portfolio Management, 45(7):24–42.
Assimakopoulos, V. and Nikolopoulos, K. (2000). The theta model:
a decomposition approach to forecasting. International journal of
forecasting, 16(4):521–530.
Bandara, K., Bergmeir, C., and Smyl, S. (2020). Forecasting across
time series databases using recurrent neural networks on groups
of similar series: A clustering approach. Expert systems with ap-
plications, 140:112896.
Bergmeir, C. and Benítez, J. M. (2012).
On the use of cross-
validation for time series predictor evaluation. Information Sci-
ences, 191:192–213.
Bergstra, J., Bardenet, R., Bengio, Y., and Kégl, B. (2011).
Al-
gorithms for hyper-parameter optimization. Advances in neural
information processing systems, 24.
Bergstra, J. and Bengio, Y. (2012).
Random search for hyper-
parameter optimization.
Journal of machine learning research,
13(2).
Bergstra, J., Yamins, D., Cox, D. D., et al. (2013). Hyperopt: A
python library for optimizing the hyperparameters of machine
learning algorithms.
In Proceedings of the 12th Python in sci-
ence conference, volume 13, page 20. Citeseer.
Berk, J. B. and van Binsbergen, J. H. (2015). Measuring skill in the
mutual fund industry. Journal of Financial Economics, 118(1):1–
20.
Bollen, N. P. B. and Busse, J. A. (2005).
Short-term persistence
in mutual fund performance.
The Review of financial studies,
18(2):569–597.
Box, G. E., Jenkins, G. M., Reinsel, G. C., and Ljung, G. M. (2015).
Time series analysis: forecasting and control. John Wiley & Sons.
Cai, Y. (2005). A forecasting procedure for nonlinear autoregressive
time series models. Journal of Forecasting, 24(5):335–351.
Cao, J. and Wang, J. (2019). Stock price forecasting model based
on modified convolution neural network and financial time se-
ries analysis. International Journal of Communication Systems,
32(12):e3987.
Carhart, M. M. (1997). On persistence in mutual fund performance.
The Journal of Finance, 52(1):57–82.
Chen, W., Xu, H., Jia, L., and Gao, Y. (2021). Machine learning
model for bitcoin exchange rate prediction using economic and
technology determinants.
International Journal of Forecasting,
37(1):28–43.
Chiang, W.-C., Urban, T., and Baldridge, G. (1996). A neural net-
work approach to mutual fund net asset value forecasting. Omega,
24(2):205–215.
Cho, K., Van Merriënboer, B., Bahdanau, D., and Bengio, Y. (2014).
On the properties of neural machine translation: Encoder-decoder
approaches. arXiv preprint arXiv:1409.1259.
Chung, J., Gulcehre, C., Cho, K., and Bengio, Y. (2014). Empirical
evaluation of gated recurrent neural networks on sequence model-
ing. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.3555.
Crone, S. F., Hibon, M., and Nikolopoulos, K. (2011).
Advances
in forecasting with neural networks? empirical evidence from the
nn3 competition on time series prediction. International Journal
of forecasting, 27(3):635–660.
Elton, E. J. and Gruber, M. J. (2020). A review of the performance
measurement of long-term mutual funds. Financial analysts jour-
nal, 76(3):22–37.
Fiorucci, J. A. and Louzada, F. (2020). Groec: combination method
via generalized rolling origin evaluation. International Journal of
Forecasting, 36(1):105–109.
Fiorucci, J. A., Pellegrini, T. R., Louzada, F., Petropoulos, F., and
Koehler, A. B. (2016). Models for optimising the theta method
and their relationship to state space models. International Journal
of Forecasting, 32(4):1151–1161.
Hewamalage, H., Bergmeir, C., and Bandara, K. (2021). Recurrent
neural networks for time series forecasting: Current status and
future directions. International Journal of Forecasting, 37(1):388–
427.
Hochreiter, S. and Schmidhuber, J. (1997). Long short-term memory.
Neural computation, 9(8):1735–1780.
Hyndman, R. (2018). A brief history of time series forecasting com-
petitions. URL https://robjhyndman.com/hyndsight/forecasting-
competitions.
Hyndman, R. and Athanasopoulos, G. (2013). Forecasting: princi-
ples and practice.[e-book].
Hyndman, R., Koehler, A. B., Ord, J. K., and Snyder, R. D. (2008).
Forecasting with exponential smoothing: the state space approach.
Springer Science & Business Media.
Hyndman, R. J. and Athanasopoulos, G. (2018). Forecasting: prin-
ciples and practice. OTexts.
Hyndman, R. J. and Khandakar, Y. (2008). Automatic time series
forecasting: the forecast package for r. Journal of statistical soft-
ware, 27:1–22.
Hyndman, R. J. and Koehler, A. B. (2006). Another look at mea-
sures of forecast accuracy.
International journal of forecasting,
22(4):679–688.
ICI, R. . S. P. (2021). 2021 Investment Company FACT BOOK.
Indro, D., Jiang, C., Patuwo, B., and Zhang, G. (1999). Predicting
mutual fund performance using artificial neural networks. Omega,
27(3):373–380.
Ioffe, S. and Szegedy, C. (2015).
Batch normalization: Accelerat-
ing deep network training by reducing internal covariate shift.
In International conference on machine learning, pages 448–456.
PMLR.
Irvine, P. J., Kim, J. H. J., and Ren, J. (2022). The beta anomaly
and mutual fund performance [working paper.
Jianwei, E., Ye, J., and Jin, H. (2019). A novel hybrid model on
the prediction of time series and its application for the gold price
analysis and forecasting. Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its
Applications, 527:121454.
Kacperczyk, M., Nieuwerburgh, S. V., and Veldkamp, L. (2014).
Time-varying fund manager skill.
The Journal of Finance,
69(4):1455–1484.
Kahn, R. N. and Rudd, A. (1995). Does historical performance pre-
dict future performance? Financial analysts journal, 51(6):43–52.
Kenton, J. D. M.-W. C. and Toutanova, L. K. (2019). Bert: Pre-
training of deep bidirectional transformers for language under-
standing. In Proceedings of NAACL-HLT, pages 4171–4186.
Kim, S. and Kim, H. (2016). A new metric of absolute percentage
error for intermittent demand forecasts. International Journal of
Forecasting, 32(3):669–679.
Kingma, D. P. and Ba, J. (2014). Adam: A method for stochastic
optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980.
Li, X., Chen, S., Hu, X., and Yang, J. (2019). Understanding the
disharmony between dropout and batch normalization by variance
shift.
Li, Z., Han, J., and Song, Y. (2020). On the forecasting of high-
frequency financial time series based on arima model improved by
deep learning. Journal of Forecasting, 39(7):1081–1097.
Lou, D. (2012). A flow-based explanation for return predictability.
The Review of Financial Studies, 25(12):3457–3489.
Makridakis, S. and Hibon, M. (2000). The m3-competition: results,
conclusions and implications. International journal of forecasting,
16(4):451–476.
Makridakis, S., Spiliotis, E., and Assimakopoulos, V. (2020). The
m4 competition: 100,000 time series and 61 forecasting methods.
International Journal of Forecasting, 36(1):54–74.
Melard, G. and Pasteels, J.-M. (2000). Automatic arima modeling
16

including interventions, using time series expert software. Inter-
national Journal of Forecasting, 16(4):497–508.
Newbold, P. (1983). Arima model building and the time series anal-
ysis approach to forecasting. Journal of forecasting, 2(1):23–35.
Pan, W.-T., Han, S.-Z., Yang, H.-L., and Chen, X.-Y. (2019). Pre-
diction of mutual fund net value based on data mining model.
Cluster computing, 22:9455–9460.
Pannakkong, W., Pham, V.-H., and Huynh, V.-N. (2017). A novel
hybridization of arima, ann, and k-means for time series forecast-
ing.
International Journal of Knowledge and Systems Science
(IJKSS), 8(4):30–53.
Petropoulos, F., Apiletti, D., Assimakopoulos, V., Babai, M. Z., Bar-
row, D. K., Taieb, S. B., Bergmeir, C., Bessa, R. J., Bijak, J.,
Boylan, J. E., et al. (2022).
Forecasting: theory and practice.
International Journal of Forecasting.
Putatunda, S. and Rama, K. (2019). A modified bayesian optimiza-
tion based hyper-parameter tuning approach for extreme gradient
boosting. In 2019 Fifteenth International Conference on Infor-
mation Processing (ICINPRO), pages 1–6. IEEE.
Ruppert, D. (2004). The elements of statistical learning: data min-
ing, inference, and prediction.
Santurkar, S., Tsipras, D., Ilyas, A., and Mądry, A. (2018). How does
batch normalization help optimization?
In Proceedings of the
32nd international conference on neural information processing
systems, pages 2488–2498.
Semenoglou, A.-A., Spiliotis, E., Makridakis, S., and Assimakopou-
los, V. (2021). Investigating the accuracy of cross-learning time
series forecasting methods. International Journal of Forecasting,
37(3):1072–1084.
Sezer, O. B., Gudelek, M. U., and Ozbayoglu, A. M. (2020). Financial
time series forecasting with deep learning: A systematic literature
review: 2005–2019. Applied Soft Computing, 90:106181.
Sharpe, W. F. (1966). Mutual fund performance. The Journal of
Business, 39(1):451–476.
Sharpe, W. F. (1994). The sharpe ratio. Journal of portfolio man-
agement, 21(1):49–58.
Smyl, S. (2020).
A hybrid method of exponential smoothing and
recurrent neural networks for time series forecasting. International
Journal of Forecasting, 36(1):75–85.
Srivastava, N., Hinton, G., Krizhevsky, A., Sutskever, I., and
Salakhutdinov, R. (2014). Dropout: a simple way to prevent neu-
ral networks from overfitting. The journal of machine learning
research, 15(1):1929–1958.
Taieb, S. B., Bontempi, G., Atiya, A. F., and Sorjamaa, A. (2012).
A review and comparison of strategies for multi-step ahead time
series forecasting based on the nn5 forecasting competition. Expert
systems with applications, 39(8):7067–7083.
Wang, K. and Huang, S. (2010). Using fast adaptive neural network
classifier for mutual fund performance evaluation. Expert systems
with applications, 37(8):6007–6011.
Wen, R., Torkkola, K., Narayanaswamy, B., and Madeka, D. (2017).
A multi-horizon quantile recurrent forecaster.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1711.11053.
Wu, J., Chen, X.-Y., Zhang, H., Xiong, L.-D., Lei, H., and Deng,
S.-H. (2019). Hyperparameter optimization for machine learning
models based on bayesian optimization.
Journal of Electronic
Science and Technology, 17(1):26–40.
Xu, W., Peng, H., Zeng, X., Zhou, F., Tian, X., and Peng, X. (2019).
A hybrid modelling method for time series forecasting based on
a linear regression model and deep learning. Applied Intelligence,
49(8):3002–3015.
Zhang, A., Lipton, Z. C., Li, M., and Smola, A. J. (2021). Dive into
deep learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.11342.
17
