How Active Is Your Fund Manager?
A New Measure That Predicts Performance
K. J. Martijn Cremers
International Center for Finance
Yale School of Management
Antti Petajistoy
International Center for Finance
Yale School of Management
March 31, 2009
Abstract
We introduce a new measure of active portfolio management, Active Share, which
represents the share of portfolio holdings that di¤er from the benchmark index holdings.
We compute Active Share for domestic equity mutual funds from 1980 to 2003. We re-
late Active Share to fund characteristics such as size, expenses, and turnover in the
cross-section, and we also examine its evolution over time. Active Share predicts fund
performance: funds with the highest Active Share signi…cantly outperform their bench-
marks, both before and after expenses, and they exhibit strong performance persistence.
Non-index funds with the lowest Active Share underperform their benchmarks.
JEL classi…cation:
G10, G14, G20, G23
Keywords:
Portfolio management, Active Share, tracking error, closet indexing
We wish to thank Nick Barberis, Jonathan Berk, Lauren Cohen, Roger Edelen, Frank Fabozzi, Andrea
Frazzini, Will Goetzmann, John Gri¢ n, Marcin Kacperczyk, Owen Lamont, Juhani Linnainmaa, Ludovic
Phalippou, Andrei Shleifer, Clemens Sialm, Matthew Spiegel, Russ Wermers, Lu Zheng, and Eric Zitzewitz
for comments, as well as conference and seminar participants at the AFA 2007 Annual Meeting, CFEA
2006, CRSP Forum 2006, EFA 2007 Annual Meeting, FRA 2006 Annual Meeting, NBER Asset Pricing
Meeting, AllianceBernstein, Barclays Global Investors, Goldman Sachs Asset Management, Morningstar
Investment Conference, Super Bowl of Indexing, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Securities and Exchange
Commission, Amsterdam University, Boston College, Helsinki School of Economics, ISCTE Business School
(Lisbon), Tilburg University, University of Chicago, University of Maryland, University of Texas at Austin,
University of Vienna, and Yale School of Management. We are also grateful to Barra, Frank Russell Co.,
Standard & Poor’s, and Wilshire Associates for providing data for this study.
yCorresponding author: Antti Petajisto, Yale School of Management, P.O. Box 208200, New Haven,
CT 06520-8200, tel. +1-203-436-0666, antti.petajisto@yale.edu.
1
Introduction
An active equity fund manager can attempt to outperform the fund’s benchmark only by
taking positions that are di¤erent from the benchmark. Fund holdings can di¤er from the
benchmark holdings in two general ways: either because of stock selection or factor timing
(or both).1 Stock selection involves picking individual stocks that the manager expects to
outperform their peers. Factor timing involves time-varying bets on systematic risk factors
such as entire industries, sectors of the economy, or more generally any systematic risk
relative to the benchmark index. Because many funds favor one approach over the other,
it is not clear how to quantify active management across all funds.
Tracking error volatility (hereafter just “tracking error”) is the traditional way to mea-
sure active management. It represents the volatility of the di¤erence between a portfolio
return and its benchmark index return. However, the two distinct approaches to active
management contribute very di¤erently to tracking error, despite the fact that either of
them could produce a higher alpha. For example, the T. Rowe Price Small Cap fund is a
pure stock picker which hopes to generate alpha with its stock selection within industries,
but it simultaneously aims for high diversi…cation across industries. In contrast, the Mor-
gan Stanley American Opportunities fund is a “sector rotator” which focuses on actively
picking entire sectors and industries that outperform the broader market while holding
mostly diversi…ed (and thus passive) positions within those sectors. The tracking error of
the diversi…ed stock picker is substantially lower than that of the sector rotator, suggesting
that the former is much less active. But this would be an incorrect conclusion –its tracking
error is lower simply because individual stock picks allow for greater diversi…cation, even
while potentially contributing to a positive alpha.
Instead, we can compare the portfolio holdings of a fund to its benchmark index. When
a fund overweights a stock relative to the index weight, it has an active long position in
it, and when a fund underweights an index stock or does not buy it at all, it implicitly
has an active short position in it. In particular, we can decompose any portfolio into a
100% position in its benchmark index plus a zero-net-investment long-short portfolio on
top of that (Asness (2004) discusses the same decomposition, albeit from the point of view
of tracking error alone). For example, a fund might have 100% in the S&P 500 plus 40% in
active long positions and 40% in active short positions.
We propose the size of this active long-short portfolio (40% in the previous example)
1The basic idea has been presented and discussed by Fama (1972), Brinson, Hood, and Beebower (1986),
Daniel, Grinblatt, Titman, and Wermers (1997), and many others.
1
as a new measure of active management, and we label this measure the Active Share of a
portfolio. Since mutual funds almost never take actual short positions, their Active Share
will always be between zero and 100%. Active Share can thus be easily interpreted as the
“fraction of the portfolio that is di¤erent from the benchmark index.”
We argue that Active Share is useful for two main reasons. First, it provides information
about a fund’s potential for beating its benchmark index –after all, an active manager can
only add value relative to the index by deviating from it. Some positive level of Active Share
is therefore a necessary (albeit not su¢ cient) condition for outperforming the benchmark.
Second, while Active Share is a convenient stand-alone measure of active management,
it can also be used together with tracking error for a more comprehensive picture of active
management, allowing us to distinguish between stock selection and factor timing. The
main conceptual di¤erence between the measures is that tracking error incorporates the
covariance matrix of returns and thus puts signi…cantly more weight on correlated active
bets, whereas Active Share puts equal weight on all active bets regardless of diversi…cation.
Hence, we can choose tracking error as a reasonable proxy for factor bets and Active Share
for stock selection.2
Using these proxies, we illustrate the two dimensions of active management in Figure 1.
A diversi…ed stock picker can be very active despite its low tracking error, because its
stock selection within industries can still lead to large deviations from the index portfolio.
In contrast, a fund betting on systematic factors can generate a large tracking error even
without large deviations from index holdings. A concentrated stock picker combines the
two approaches, thus taking positions in individual stocks as well as in systematic factors.
A “closet indexer”scores low on both dimensions of active management while still claiming
to be active.3 Finally, a pure index fund has almost zero tracking error and Active Share.
In this paper, we apply the methodology to characterize active management for all-equity
mutual funds in the US. The passive benchmark is assigned separately for each fund and
each point in time by choosing the index that produces the lowest Active Share. First, we
determine how much and what type of active management each fund practices, and we test
how this is related to other fund characteristics such as size, fees, ‡ows, and prior returns.
Second, we examine the time series from 1980 to 2003 to understand the evolution of active
management over time. Third, we investigate fund performance to …nd out whether more
2In principle, either dimension could be measured entirely from portfolio holdings or from returns. For
example, we also use industry-level Active Share in this paper as a holdings-based proxy for industry bets.
3Fidelity Magellan at the end of our sample period is one of the most prominent examples, despite the
denials by its manager (e.g. The Wall Street Journal, 5/28/2004, “Magellan’s Manager Has Regrets”).
2
active managers have more skill and whether that skill survives their fees and expenses.
Our methodology allows us to focus on the performance of the truly active funds as well
as the di¤erent types of active funds, complementing the existing mutual fund literature
which has typically not made such distinctions between non-index funds.
In the cross section of funds, we …nd wide dispersion along both dimensions of active
management. For example, a tracking error of 4-6% can be associated with an Active Share
anywhere between 30% and 100%, thus including both closet indexers as well as very active
funds. The Active Share of an individual fund is extremely persistent over time. Consistent
with the popular notion, small funds are indeed more active than large funds; however, the
e¤ect is economically small, and it only becomes signi…cant after about $1bn in assets. The
expense ratio is much lower for index funds, but for all other funds it exhibits surprisingly
little relationship to Active Share, which makes closet indexers disproportionately expensive.
The fraction of pure index funds grew substantially over the 1990s, from about 1% to
15% of mutual fund assets. However, the fraction of closet indexers increased even more
signi…cantly: funds with low Active Share (20%-60%) had about 30% of all assets in 2003,
compared with almost zero in the 1980s. This trend dragged down the average Active Share
of non-index large-cap funds from about 80% to 60% over the same period.
Fund performance in excess of the benchmark is signi…cantly related to active man-
agement, as revealed by a two-dimensional sort of non-index funds by Active Share and
tracking error. Funds with the highest Active Share exhibit some skill and pick portfolios
which outperform their benchmarks by 1.51%-2.40% per year. After fees and transaction
costs, this outperformance decreases to 1.13%-1.15% per year. In contrast, funds with the
lowest Active Share have poor benchmark-adjusted returns and alphas before expenses (be-
tween 0.11% and -0.63%) and do even worse after expenses, underperforming by -1.42% to
-1.83% per year. The di¤erences in performance across the top and bottom Active Share
groups are also statistically signi…cant.
Interestingly, tracking error by itself is not related to fund returns.
Hence, not all
dimensions of active management are rewarded in the market, but the dimension captured
by Active Share is. Economically, these results suggest that the most active stock pickers
have enough skill to outperform their benchmarks even after fees and transaction costs. In
contrast, funds focusing on factor bets seem to have zero to negative skill, which leads to
particularly bad performance after fees. Hence, it appears that there are some mispricings
in individual stocks that active managers can exploit, but broader factor portfolios may
3
either be too e¢ ciently priced or too di¢ cult for the managers to predict. Closet indexers,
unsurprisingly, exhibit zero skill but underperform because of their expenses.
Active Share is very signi…cantly related to benchmark-adjusted performance within
the smallest 60% of funds, producing a spread in returns of 2.5%-3.8%. A weaker but still
positive relationship exists for the largest 40% of funds, where the return spread varies from
1% to 2% per year.
Among the highest Active Share quintile, there is signi…cant persistence in benchmark-
adjusted fund performance even after controlling for momentum. The funds in the highest
Active Share and highest prior-year return quintiles continue to outperform their bench-
marks by 5.10% per year (t = 3:67) after expenses, or 3.50% per year (t = 3:29) under the
four-factor model of Carhart (1997).
While our results using benchmark-adjusted returns are robust to the four-factor Carhart
model, the standard non-benchmark-adjusted Carhart alphas show no signi…cant relation-
ship with Active Share. The reason behind this is that the benchmark indexes of the highest
Active Share funds have large negative Carhart alphas, while the benchmarks of the low-
est Active Share funds have large positive alphas, even though these benchmark indexes
are passive, well-diversi…ed, and widely followed. This may not matter for investors who
tend to care about performance relative to the o¢ cial benchmark index rather than relative
to a long-short Carhart benchmark, but the result does suggest a misspeci…cation in the
four-factor Carhart model (see Cremers, Petajisto, and Zitzewitz (2008)).
The current mutual fund literature has done little to investigate active management
per se.
Instead, a large volume of research has focused on fund performance directly.4
For example, a comprehensive study by Wermers (2000) computes mutual fund returns
before and after expenses; our work re…nes those performance results by dividing funds
into various active management categories.
Even more closely related, Wermers (2003)
investigates active management and fund performance but uses only the S&P 500 tracking
error as a measure of active management; we add the Active Share dimension, which turns
out to be crucial for fund returns, and we use a variety of actual stock market indexes rather
than only the S&P 500.
Kacperczyk, Sialm, and Zheng (2005) ask a related question about whether industry
4Various performance measures have been developed and applied by Jensen (1968), Grinblatt and Titman
(1989, 1993), Gruber (1996), Daniel, Grinblatt, Titman, and Wermers (1997), Wermers (2000), Pastor and
Stambaugh (2002), Cohen, Coval, and Pastor (2005), and many others.
Studies focusing on performance
persistence include, for example, Brown and Goetzmann (1995), Carhart (1997), Bollen and Busse (2004),
and Mamaysky, Spiegel, and Zhang (2006).
4
concentration of mutual funds explains fund performance. This amounts to testing whether
funds with concentrated stock picks or large factor bets in industries perform better than
other funds.
Our performance results address the broader question about whether any
active stock picks are re‡ected in fees and alphas, and whether any types of factor bets,
including ones unrelated to speci…c industries, are similarly re‡ected in performance.
Another important feature separating our paper from many others in the literature is
the data.
First, we have holdings data for the most common benchmark indexes used
in the industry over the sample period: the S&P 500, S&P 400, S&P 600, S&P500/Barra
Value, S&P500/Barra Growth, Russell 1000, Russell 2000, Russell 3000, Russell Midcap, the
value and growth components of the four Russell indexes (i.e., eight Russell style indexes),
Wilshire 5000, and Wilshire 4500, for a total of 19 indexes. This allows us to compute
Active Share relative to a fund’s realistic benchmark index as opposed to picking the same
market index for all funds. Second, we use daily data on mutual fund returns. This is
important for the accurate calculation of tracking error, especially when funds do not keep
their styles constant over the years or when funds have only short return histories.
The paper proceeds as follows.
Section 2 examines our de…nition and measures of
active management. Section 3 describes the data sources and sample selection criteria. The
empirical results for active management are presented in Section 4 and for fund performance
in Section 5. Section 6 concludes. All tables and …gures are in the appendix.
2
De…nition and Measures of Active Management
“Passive management”of a portfolio is easy to de…ne: it consists of replicating the return
on an index with a strategy of buying and holding all (or almost all) index stocks in the
o¢ cial index proportions.
“Active management”can then be de…ned as any deviation from passive management.
Measuring it involves measuring the “degree of deviation”from passive management. How-
ever, there are di¤erent types of active management, and this is where the di¢ culties arise:
how to measure the deviation depends on what aspect of active management we want to
capture.
2.1
Tracking Error
Tracking error (or more formally, tracking error volatility) is commonly de…ned (see e.g.
Grinold and Kahn (1999)) as the time-series standard deviation of the di¤erence between
5
a fund return (Rfund;t) and its benchmark index return (Rindex;t):
Tracking error = Stdev [Rfund;t   Rindex;t] :
A typical active manager aims for an expected return higher than the benchmark index,
but at the same time he wants to have a low tracking error (volatility) to minimize the risk
of signi…cantly underperforming the index. Mean-variance analysis in this excess-return
framework is a standard tool of active managers (e.g. Roll (1992) or Jorion (2003)).
The common de…nition of tracking error e¤ectively assumes a beta equal to one with
respect to the benchmark index, and thus any deviation from a beta of one will generate
tracking error.
In this paper we adopt a slightly modi…ed de…nition of tracking error,
obtained by regressing excess fund returns on excess index returns:
Rfund;t   Rf;t
=
fund + fund (Rindex;t   Rf;t) + "fund;t
Tracking error
=
Stdev ["fund;t] :
Following from this de…nition, any persistent allocation to cash or to high-beta or low-beta
stocks will not contribute to our measure of tracking error.
2.2
Active Share
Our new intuitive and simple way to quantify active management is to compare the holdings
of a mutual fund with the holdings of its benchmark index. We label this measure the Active
Share of a fund, and we de…ne it as:
Active Share = 1
2
N
X
i=1
jwfund;i   windex;ij ;
where wfund;i and windex;i are the portfolio weights of asset i in the fund and in the index,
and the sum is taken over the universe of all assets.5
Active Share has an intuitive economic interpretation. We can decompose a mutual
fund portfolio into a 100% position in the benchmark index, plus a zero-net-investment
5We compute the sum across stock positions only, as we apply the measure exclusively to all-equity
portfolios.
However, in general one should sum up across all positions, including cash and bonds, which
may also be part of the portfolio (or part of the index).
If a portfolio contains derivatives, Active Share becomes a more complex but still feasible concept. Then
we would have to decompose the derivatives into implied positions in the underlying securities (e.g., stock
index futures would be expressed as positions in stocks and cash) and compute Active Share across those
underlying securities. Because mutual funds tend to have negligible derivative positions, this is not a concern
for us.
6
long-short portfolio. The long-short portfolio represents all the active bets the fund has
taken. Active Share measures the size of that long-short portfolio as a fraction of the total
portfolio of the fund. We divide the sum of portfolio weight di¤erences by two so that a
fund that has zero overlap with its benchmark index gets a 100% Active Share (i.e., we do
not count the long side and the short side of the positions separately).
As an illustration, let us consider a fund with a $100 million portfolio benchmarked
against the S&P 500. Imagine that the manager starts by investing $100 million in the
index, thus having a pure index fund with 500 stocks. Assume the manager only likes half
of the stocks, so he eliminates the other half from his portfolio, generating $50 million in
cash, and then he invests that $50 million in those stocks he likes. This produces an Active
Share of 50% (i.e. 50% overlap with the index). If he invests in only 50 stocks out of 500
(assuming no size bias), his Active Share will be 90% (i.e., 10% overlap with the index).
According to this measure, it is equally active to pick 50 stocks out of a relevant investment
universe of 500 or 10 stocks out of 100 –in either case you choose to exclude 90% of the
candidate stocks from your portfolio.
For a mutual fund that never shorts a stock and never buys on margin, Active Share will
always be between zero and 100%. In other words, the short side of the long-short portfolio
never exceeds the long index position. In contrast, the Active Share of a hedge fund can
signi…cantly exceed 100% due to its leverage and net short positions in individual stocks.
2.3
Combining Active Share with Tracking Error
Why do we need to know the Active Share of a fund if we already know its tracking
error? The main limitation of using tracking error alone is that di¤erent types of active
management will contribute to it di¤erently; active management is not a one-dimensional
concept and thus it cannot be completely characterized by a one-dimensional measure.
There are two basic ways an active fund manager can hope to outperform his benchmark
index: by stock selection or factor timing. Fama (1972) was an early advocate of this re-
turn decomposition, which has spawned a large body of research, including for example the
performance attribution methodologies of Brinson, Hood, and Beebower (1986) and Daniel,
Grinblatt, Titman, and Wermers (1997). Stock selection means attempting to pick outper-
forming stocks relative to a benchmark portfolio with similar exposure to systematic risk.
This may include controlling for market beta, book-to-market ratio, market capitalization,
or industry. Factor timing (also known as “tactical asset allocation” or in some contexts
7
“market timing” or “sector rotation”), in contrast, involves taking time-varying positions
in broader factor portfolios according to the manager’s views of their future returns.
While the prior literature has largely focused on ex post returns and performance at-
tribution, we focus on quantifying an active manager’s ex ante attempt to engage in stock
selection or factor timing. To capture a manager’s e¤orts in the two dimensions, we need
two separate measures. We suggest using Active Share and tracking error together to span
these two dimensions of active management.
The main conceptual di¤erence between Active Share and tracking error is that tracking
error includes the covariance matrix of returns. As a result, tracking error puts signi…cantly
more weight on correlated active bets –in other words, bets on systematic factors. This
makes tracking error a reasonable proxy for factor timing. In contrast, Active Share puts
equal weight on all active bets (relative to the index), regardless of whether the risk in such
bets is largely diversi…ed away in a portfolio. Thus it serves as a reasonable proxy for stock
selection.
Figure 1 illustrates the economics behind the two-dimensional classi…cation of funds.
A diversi…ed stock picker may take large stock-speci…c active positions within industries,
producing a high Active Share. If it simultaneously diversi…es its active positions across all
industries and does not bear any systematic risk relative to the benchmark index, it will
have a low tracking error just like closet indexers. Yet its high Active Share is far from
irrelevant: a manager can only outperform the benchmark index by deviating from it, so
this is a direct indication of the fund’s active e¤orts to outperform. Conversely, a fund that
is exclusively timing broad factor portfolios but not attempting to choose stocks within such
portfolios would have high tracking error and (relatively) low Active Share.
In principle, we could measure either dimension of active management entirely from
portfolio holdings or from portfolio returns. Factor timing could be measured either with
tracking error, which emphasizes bets on systematic risk, or with Active Share computed
over broad factor portfolios (such as the industry-level Active Share in Section 4.1.4, which
is closely related to the Industry Concentration Index of Kacperczyk, Sialm, and Zheng
(2005)). Stock selection could be measured either with Active Share (or an intra-industry
measure of Active Share), or with residual volatility from a multifactor regression of fund
return on a number of systematic factor portfolios (intended to capture all exposure to
systematic risk).
The choice of tracking error and Active Share as proxies for the two dimensions of active
management has the following main bene…ts: Tracking error allows us to measure factor
8
timing without assuming anything about how fund managers de…ne factor portfolios at
each point in time, whereas a holdings-based approach would require such assumptions.
Tracking error is also by far the most commonly used measure of active management in
practice. Active Share similarly does not require any assumptions about the relevant factor
portfolios, and it is an extremely simple and intuitive measure with a convenient economic
interpretation.
3
Empirical Methodology
3.1
Data on Holdings
In order to compute Active Share, we need data on the portfolio composition of mutual
funds as well as their benchmark indexes. All stock holdings, for both funds and bench-
mark indexes, are matched with the CRSP stock return database. The stock holdings of
mutual funds are from the CDA/Spectrum mutual fund holdings database maintained by
Thomson Financial. The database is compiled from mandatory SEC …lings as well as vol-
untary disclosures by mutual funds. Starting in 1980, it reports most mutual fund holdings
quarterly. Wermers (1999) describes the database in more detail.
As benchmarks for the funds, we include essentially all indexes used by the funds them-
selves over the sample period. We have a total of 19 indexes from three index families:
S&P/Barra, Russell, and Wilshire.
The S&P/Barra indexes we pick are the S&P 500, S&P500/Barra Growth, S&P500/Barra
Value, S&P MidCap 400, and S&P SmallCap 600. The S&P 500 is the most common large-
cap benchmark index, consisting of approximately the largest 500 stocks.
It is further
divided into a growth and value style, with equal market capitalization in each style, and
this forms the Barra Growth and Value indexes. The S&P 400 and S&P 600 consist of
400 mid-cap and 600 small-cap stocks, respectively. The index constituent data for the
S&P/Barra indexes are directly from Standard & Poor’s and Barra. We have month-end
constituents for the large-cap style indexes starting in 9/1992; the S&P 400 holdings data
start in 7/1991 and the S&P 600 start in 12/1994. The S&P 500 data cover the sample
since 1/1980.
From the Russell family we have 12 indexes: the Russell 1000, Russell 2000, Russell 3000
and Russell Midcap indexes, plus the value and growth components of each. The Russell
3000 covers the largest 3,000 stocks in the U.S. and the Russell 1000 covers the largest 1,000
stocks. Russell 2000 is the most common small-cap benchmark, consisting of the smallest
9
2,000 stocks in the Russell 3000. The Russell Midcap index contains the smallest 800 stocks
in the Russell 1000. The index constituent data are from Frank Russell Co. and start in
12/1978.
Finally, we include the two most popular Wilshire indexes (now owned by Dow Jones),
namely the Wilshire 5000 and Wilshire 4500. The Wilshire 5000 covers essentially the entire
U.S. equity market, with about 5,000 stocks in 2004 and peaking at over 7,500 stocks in
1998. The Wilshire 4500 is equal to the Wilshire 5000 minus the 500 stocks in the S&P 500
index, which makes it a mid-cap to small-cap index. The Wilshire index constituent data
are from Wilshire Associates and start in 1/1979.
In order to cover all basic investment styles over our full time period and to keep the
set of benchmarks as constant as possible, we use all the data we have, even if it includes
constituent data backdated to a time before the inception of an index. This means that we
backdated the benchmark index holdings ourselves (Wilshire 4500 before 1983) or inferred
intermediate month-end holdings from o¢ cially backdated quarter-end holdings (Russell
indexes before 1987). This has an e¤ect on our results in the 1980s, but it has no e¤ect on
our performance results which start in 1/1990.
3.2
Data on Returns
Monthly returns for mutual funds are from the CRSP mutual fund database. These are
net returns, i.e. after fees, expenses, and brokerage commissions but before any front-end
or back-end loads. Monthly returns for benchmark indexes are from S&P, Russell, and
Ibbotson Associates, and all of them include dividends. Daily returns for mutual funds
are from multiple sources.
Our main source is Standard and Poor’s which maintains a
comprehensive database of live mutual funds (also known as the Micropal mutual fund data).
We use their “Worths”package which contains daily per-share net asset values (assuming
reinvested dividends) starting from 1/1980. Because the S&P data does not contain dead
funds, we supplement it with two other data sources. The …rst one is the CRSP mutual
fund database which also contains daily returns for live and dead funds starting in 1/2001.
The second one is a database used by Goetzmann, Ivkovic, and Rouwenhorst (2001) and
obtained from the Wall Street Web. It is free of survivorship bias and contains daily returns
(assuming reinvested dividends) from 1/1968 to 1/2001, so we use it to match dead funds
earlier in our sample. Whenever available, we use the S&P data because it appears slightly
cleaner than the latter two sources. Finally, daily returns for benchmark indexes are from a
10
few di¤erent sources. The S&P 500 (total return) is from CRSP, while the rest of the S&P,
Russell, and Wilshire index returns are directly from the index providers.
3.3
Sample Selection
We start by merging the CRSP mutual fund database with the CDA/Spectrum holdings
database. The mapping is a combined version of the hand-mapping used in Cohen, Coval,
and Pastor (2005) and the algorithmic mapping used in Frazzini (2005), where we manually
resolve any con‡icting matches. For funds with multiple share classes in CRSP, we compute
the sum of total net assets in each share class to arrive at the total net assets in the fund.
For the expense ratio, loads, turnover, and the percentage of stocks in the portfolio we
compute the value-weighted average across the share classes. For all other variables such
as fund name, we pick the variables from the share class with the highest total net assets.
We want to focus on all-equity funds, so we look at investment objective codes from
Wiesenberg, ICDI, and Spectrum, and we require each objective code for each fund to be
aggressive growth, growth, growth and income, equity income, growth with current income,
income, long-term growth, maximum capital gains, small capitalization growth, unclassi…ed,
or missing. We also look at the percentage of stocks in the portfolio as reported by CRSP,
compute its time series average for each fund, and select the funds where this average is at
least 80% or missing. Because this value is missing or zero for many legitimate all-equity
funds, we also separately compute the value of the stock holdings from Spectrum and their
share of the total net assets of the fund; since we can only include the stock holdings that we
can match with the CRSP stock …le, we set the threshold here to 67% of reported total net
assets. These criteria most notably exclude any bond funds, balanced and asset allocation
funds, international funds, precious metals, and sector funds.
To compute Active Share, the report date of fund holdings has to match the date of
index holdings. For virtually all of our sample, this is not a problem as both index holdings
and fund holdings are month-end, and we drop the remaining few exceptions from the
sample. To compute tracking error, we require at least 100 trading days of daily return
data for each fund in the 6 months immediately preceding its holdings report date. This
is necessary for reasonably accurate estimates of tracking error, but it does decrease the
number of funds in our sample by 5.4%, mostly in the 1980s. Evans (2004) discusses an
incubation bias in fund returns, which we address by eliminating observations before the
starting year reported by CRSP as well as the observations with a missing fund name in
CRSP. Finally, we only include funds with equity holdings greater than $10 million.
11
After the aforementioned screens, our …nal sample consists of 2,647 funds in the period
1980-2003. For each year and each fund, the stock holdings are reported for an average of
three separate report dates (rdate); the total number of such fund-rdate observations in the
sample is 48,354.
3.4
Selection of Benchmark Index
Determining the benchmark index for a large sample of funds is not a trivial task. Our
solution is to estimate proper benchmark assignment from the stock holdings of mutual
funds for the full time period from 1980 to 2003.6 We compute the Active Share of a fund
with respect to all 19 indexes and assign the index with the lowest Active Share as that
fund’s benchmark. By construction, this index has the greatest amount of overlap with the
stock holdings of the fund across the set of 19 indexes.
Besides being intuitive, our methodology has a few distinct advantages. It cannot be
completely o¤ –if it assigns an incorrect benchmark, it happens only because the fund’s
portfolio actually does resemble that index more than any other index. It also requires no
return history and can be determined at any point in time as long as we know the portfolio
holdings. Thus we can use it to track a fund’s style changes over time, or even from one
quarter to the next when a fund manager is replaced.
4
Results: Active Management
In this section we present the empirical results for active management. We start with a
cross-sectional analysis of fund characteristics for various types of funds, using the two
dimensions of Active Share and tracking error. We then proceed to investigate the determi-
nants of Active Share in a more general multivariate case. Finally, we discuss the time-series
evolution of active management.
6Since 1998, the SEC has required each fund to report a benchmark index in its prospectus; however, this
information is not part of any publicly available mutual fund database, and prior to 1998 it does not exist
for all funds. These self-declared benchmarks might even lead to a bias: some funds could intentionally pick
a misleading benchmark to increase their chances of beating the benchmark by a large margin, as discussed
in Sensoy (2006).
Typically mutual funds have just one benchmark index, but in some cases a fund’s objective may justify
a split benchmark between two indexes. We do not consider that extension in this paper.
12
4.1
Two-Dimensional Distribution of Funds
We …rst compile the distribution of all funds in our sample along the two dimensions of
Active Share and tracking error, and then investigate how various fund characteristics are
related to this distribution. The most recent year for which we have complete data is 2002,
so we start our analysis with a snapshot of the cross-section of all funds that year. Panel A
of Table 1 presents the number of funds as bivariate distributions and also as univariate
marginal distributions along the Active Share and tracking error dimensions.
The distribution of funds clearly reveals a positive correlation between the two measures
of active management. Yet within most categories of Active Share or tracking error, there
is still considerable variation in the other measure. For example, a tracking error of 4-6%
can be associated with an Active Share anywhere between 30% and 100%; and an Active
Share of 70-80% can go with a tracking error ranging from 2% to over 14%. This con…rms
that distinguishing between the two dimensions of active management is also empirically
important if we want to understand how much each fund engages in stock selection and
factor timing.7
Funds with an Active Share less than 20% consist of pure index funds. When we refer to
“closet indexers”throughout this paper, we generally mean non-index funds with relatively
low Active Share, sometimes speci…cally referring to the funds with an Active Share of only
20%-60%.8
4.1.1
Are Smaller Funds More Active?
Funds with high Active Share indeed tend to be small while funds with low Active Share
tend to be larger. Panel B in Table 1 shows that the median fund size varies from less than
$200 million for high Active Share funds to $250 million and above for low Active Share
funds. The relationship is almost monotonic when going from the most active funds to
7While the Active Share numbers are based on reported fund holdings at the end of a quarter, it is
unlikely that any potential “window dressing”by funds would systematically distort their Active Share. For
example, to increase Active Share by 10% at the end of each quarter and to decrease it by the same 10%
a few days later would require 80% annual portfolio turnover. A fund with an average portfolio turnover
of 80% would therefore double its turnover to 160%, incurring large trading costs in the process, all in an
e¤ort merely to increase its Active Share by 10%. This seems rather implausible.
8It is very hard to see how an active fund could justify investing in more than half of all stocks, because
regardless of the managers’beliefs on individual stocks, he must know that no more than half of all stocks
can beat the market. Thus a fund with an Active Share less than 50% is always a hybrid between a purely
active and purely passive portfolio.
13
closet indexers: fund size is indeed negatively correlated with active management. Figure 2
shows a scatter plot of Active Share as a function of fund size for all non-index funds with
large-cap benchmarks in 2002. It also shows the average Active Share and the Active Share
of a marginal dollar added to a fund’s portfolio, both computed from a non-parametric
kernel regression of Active Share on log fund size.9
The Active Share of that marginal dollar stays constant at roughly 70% for all the way
from a $10 million fund to a $1 billion fund, meaning that these small-to-medium-sized
active large-cap funds tend to index approximately 30% of their assets. Above $1 billion in
assets Active Share starts to fall more rapidly, …rst to 60% at $10 billion and then to about
50% for the largest funds, implying that the largest large-cap funds index about one half of
their new assets. However, we should be somewhat cautious when interpreting these results
for an individual fund. There is substantial dispersion in Active Share for all fund sizes, so
while the mean is descriptive of the entire population, many individual funds still deviate
from it signi…cantly in either direction.
Finally, our calculations for Active Share put us in a unique position by allowing us to
test one of the assumptions of a prominent theoretical model by Berk and Green (2004), who
predict a strong relationship between fund size and active management. In the model, an
active manager typically starts with the ability to generate a positive alpha, but he also faces
a linear price impact (in turn generating a quadratic dollar cost) which reduces his initial
alpha. The manager then optimally chooses the size of his active portfolio to maximize his
dollar alpha, implying that all the remaining assets in the fund will be indexed. In other
words, once a fund has reached some minimum size, the active share of a marginal dollar
should be zero.
Figure 2 shows that marginal Active Share is instead almost equal to the average Active
Share, about 70% for most large-cap funds. The regression evidence in Section 4.2 further
shows that recent in‡ows of assets do not have any economically meaningful impact on the
Active Share of a fund. Qualitatively it is still true that Active Share decreases with fund
size, but quantitatively it is very hard to reconcile this result with the zero marginal Active
Share implied by the model.
In fact, Figure 2 suggests an alternative story: when a fund receives in‡ows, instead
of indexing all the new assets, it simply scales up its existing positions.
This too is a
simpli…cation, but it would match the data on active positions much better.
It is also
9We use the Nadaraya-Watson kernel estimator with a Gaussian kernel and a bandwidth equal to 0.5.
Other reasonable bandwidths give similar results.
14
supported by Pollet and Wilson (2006) who …nd that “funds overwhelmingly respond to
asset growth by increasing their [existing] ownership shares rather than by increasing the
number of investments in their portfolio.”
4.1.2
Fees and Active Management
Panel A of Table 2 shows the equal-weighted expense ratio of all funds across Active Share
and tracking error in 2002. The equal-weighted expense ratio across all funds in the sample
is 1.24% per year, while the value-weighted expense ratio (unreported) is lower at 0.89%.
Index funds clearly have the lowest expense ratios: the equal-weighted average of the lowest
Active Share and tracking error group is 0.47% per year, while the value-weighted average
is only 0.22%.
The funds with the highest Active Share charge an average expense ratio of 1.42%. The
other active fund groups exhibit slightly lower fees for lower Active Shares, but the di¤er-
ences are economically small for these intermediate ranges of Active Share. For example,
the average expense ratio for funds with Active Share between 30% and 40% is about 1.08%
per year, which is closer to the 1.23% of the group with Active Share between 60% and 70%
than the 0.47% of the pure index funds.
4.1.3
Portfolio Turnover
Portfolio turnover for the average mutual fund is 95% per year (Table 2, Panel B). Average
turnover for fund groups varies from 18% for index funds to 210% for one of the highest
Active Share groups.
The correlation of turnover with Active Share is surprisingly weak at 18% (Spearman
rank correlation at 17%). The table reveals that almost all non-index fund groups have
roughly comparable turnover averages, while the index funds clearly stand out with their
lower turnover. This would be consistent with closet indexers (perhaps unwittingly) masking
their passive strategies with portfolio turnover, i.e. a relatively high frequency of trading
their rather small active positions. Tracking error turns out to predict turnover better than
Active Share, implying that the strategies generating high tracking error also involve more
frequent trading.
4.1.4
Industry Concentration and Industry-Level Active Share
So far we have computed Active Share at the level of individual stocks. If we compute
Active Share at the level of industry portfolios, the resulting “industry-level Active Share”
15
indicates the magnitude of active positions in entire industries or sectors of the economy. If
we contrast this measure with Active Share, we can see how much each fund takes industry
bets relative to its bets on individual stocks. We assign each stock to one of ten industry
portfolios. The industries are de…ned as in Kacperczyk, Sialm, and Zheng (2005).
When we generate a similar two-dimensional table for industry-level Active Share (table
available upon request), we …nd that industry-level Active Share is relatively constant within
a tracking error group, even as stock-level Active Share varies from 50% to 100%. Within
Active Share groups, industry-level Active Share increases signi…cantly with tracking error.
This con…rms our earlier conjecture that high tracking error often arises from active bets on
industries, whereas active stock selection without industry exposure allows tracking error
to remain relatively low.
4.2
Explaining Active Share
To complement the nonparametric univariate results, we run a panel regression of Active
Share on a variety of explanatory variables (Table 3). Since some variables are reported
only annually, observations are at the fund-year level; when a fund has multiple holdings
report dates during the year, we choose the last one.
As explanatory variables we use tracking error, turnover, expense ratio, and the number
of stocks, which are all under the fund manager’s control and thus clearly endogenous, as
well as fund size, fund age, manager tenure, prior in‡ows, prior benchmark returns, and
prior benchmark-adjusted returns, which are beyond the manager’s direct control. We also
include year dummies to capture any …xed e¤ect within the year. Because both Active
Share and many of the independent variables are persistent over time, we cluster standard
errors by fund.
We …nd that tracking error is by far the most closely related to Active Share: it explains
about 13% of the variance in Active Share (the year dummies explain about 10%). Eco-
nomically, its coe¢ cient of 1.8 (column 2) means that a 5% increase in annualized tracking
error increases Active Share by about 9%. This is signi…cant, but it still leaves a great deal
of unexplained variance in Active Share. Fund size is related to Active Share, although
this relationship is nonlinear and economically not strong. The expense ratio is statistically
signi…cant, but the e¤ect is also economically small: a (large) 1% increase in expense ratio
increases Active Share by only about 4.4%. Turnover has neither statistical nor economic
signi…cance. Interestingly, fund age and manager tenure act in opposite directions, where
long manager tenure is associated with higher Active Share.
16
Fund in‡ows over the prior one to three years do not matter for Active Share. This may
appear surprising, but it only means that when managers get in‡ows, they quickly reach
their target Active Share, and thus prior fund ‡ows add no explanatory power beyond
current fund size. This result is not a¤ected by the presence of control variables (such as
prior returns) in the regression. Benchmark-adjusted returns over the prior three years are
signi…cantly related to Active Share, meaning that fund managers who were successful in
the past choose a higher Active Share. Funds are most active when their benchmark index
has underperformed other indexes for a few years but has outperformed in the previous
year. The regression includes year dummies, so the e¤ect is truly cross-sectional and not
explained by an overall market reaction.10
At a more general level, the regression results reveal that Active Share is not easy
to explain with other variables – even the broadest speci…cation produces an R2 of only
32%. Hence, it is indeed a new dimension of active management which should be measured
separately and cannot be conveniently subsumed by other variables.
4.3
Active Management over Time
4.3.1
Active Share
Figure 3 shows the time-series evolution of active management from 1980 to 2003, as mea-
sured by Active Share. There is a clear time trend toward lower Active Share. For example,
the percentage of assets under management with Active Share less than 60% went up from
1.5% in 1980 to 44.8% in 2003. Correspondingly, the percentage of fund assets with Active
Share greater than 80% went down from 42.8% in 1980 to 23.3% in 2003. The fraction
of index funds before 1990 tends to be less than 1% of funds and of their total assets but
grows rapidly after that to 15.3% in 2003. Similarly, there are very few non-index funds
with Active Share below 60% until about 1987, but since then we see a rapid increase in
such funds throughout the 1990s, reaching about 18% of funds and about 30% of their assets
in 2000-2001. This suggests that closet indexing has only been an issue since the 1990s –
before that, almost all mutual funds are truly active. The number of funds in the sample
grew from 126 in 1980 to 340 in 1990 and to 2,026 in 2003, while the amount of assets under
management grew from $25bn in 1980 to $119bn in 1990 and to $1,954bn in 2003.
10In fact the t-statistics on the benchmark index returns are likely to be somewhat overstated because
the benchmark index returns (common to all funds with the same benchmark) will also capture some
benchmark-speci…c di¤erences in Active Share.
17
4.3.2
Fund-Level Active Share vs. Aggregate Active Share
Active Share can also be computed for the entire mutual fund sector rather than only for
individual funds. This aggregate Active Share indicates whether the entire mutual fund
sector can act as a marginal investor, buying underpriced stocks and selling overpriced
ones, thus helping to make the cross-section of stock prices more e¢ cient. Furthermore,
just like Active Share for individual funds, aggregate Active Share is direct evidence of the
potential of the entire mutual fund sector to outperform its benchmarks and add value to
its investors.
Figure 4 shows the aggregate Active Share for non-index funds, together with the equal-
weighted and the value-weighted averages at the individual fund level. To compute ag-
gregate Active Share, we sum up all stock positions across individual funds into one large
aggregate fund and then compute the Active Share of that aggregate portfolio. To keep the
aggregation meaningful, we do not mix funds with di¤erent benchmark indexes; we only
use funds benchmarked to the S&P 500 (the most common index) for all three time series.
If funds never take active positions against each other, the value-weighted average Active
Share should equal the aggregate Active Share. If instead they trade only against each other,
e.g. if these funds were the only investors in the market, the aggregate Active Share should
sum up to zero. The …gure shows that about one half of those active positions actually
cancel out each other: in the 1980s, the aggregate Active Share falls to about 45% from a
value-weighted average of 75-80%, while in the most recent years the aggregate value has
been about 30% out of a fund-level average of 55-60%.
This means that the mutual fund sector as a whole gives investors an Active Share of
no more than 30%.
The remaining active bets are just noise between funds which will
not contribute to an average alpha; any bene…t from such bets for one fund must come
at the expense of other funds.
This helps us understand why the average mutual fund
underperforms net of fees: given their low aggregate Active Share, they would have to
display considerable skill in their aggregate active bets to fully overcome their fees and
expenses.
However, given the large size of the mutual fund sector, their aggregate active bets are
still signi…cant in absolute terms, giving mutual funds the potential to bring prices closer
to fundamental values. Their performance seems consistent with this, with most empirical
evidence in the literature …nding slight outperformance (before expenses) for mutual fund
portfolios.11
11Equilibrium asset pricing implications due to the presence of …nancial institutions such as mutual funds
18
4.3.3
Persistence of Fund-Level Active Share
Active Share tends to be highly persistent. Each year we rank all funds into Active Share
deciles. For all the stocks in each decile, we compute the average decile rank one to …ve
years later. The decile ranking does not change much from year to year: the top decile
ranking falls from 10 to 9.67 and the bottom decile rises from 1 to 1.27. Even over …ve
years, the top decile rank falls only to 8.88 from 10 while the bottom decile rank rises to
2.08 from 1. A decile transition matrix over one year tells a similar story with the diagonal
elements ranging from about 40% to 75%. Hence, Active Share this year is a very good
predictor of Active Share next year and thereafter. Tracking error ranks are also persistent
but somewhat less so: …ve years later the top decile has fallen from 10 to 7.52, and the
bottom decile has risen from 1 to 2.24.
5
Results: Fund Performance
This section analyzes how active management is related to benchmark-adjusted fund re-
turns. We look at both “net returns,” which we de…ne as the investors’returns after all
fees and transaction costs, and “gross returns,”which we de…ne as the hypothetical returns
on the disclosed portfolio holdings, as in e.g. Wermers (2000). The gross returns help us
identify whether any categories of funds have skill in selecting portfolios that outperform
their benchmarks, and the net returns help us determine whether any such skill survives
the fees and transaction costs of those funds.
Prior studies show that the average fund slightly outperforms the market before ex-
penses and underperforms after expenses. Since outperformance can only arise from active
management, we hypothesize that there are cross-sectional di¤erences in fund performance:
the more active the fund, the higher its average gross return. However, a priori it is not clear
how this performance relationship shows up across the two dimensions of active management
(i.e., whether Active Share matters more than tracking error) or whether the relationship
is linear.
For net returns the relationship is even more ambiguous a priori because we
do not know how fees and transaction costs are related to the two dimensions of active
management.
We pick 1990-2003 as our sample period. This is motivated by Figure 3, which con…rms
that almost all funds were very active in the 1980s.
In contrast, starting around 1990
have been explored in a theoretical model by Petajisto (2005). Our empirical estimate for aggregate Active
Share can also be used to calibrate that model and to con…rm its parameter selection as reasonable.
19
we begin to see some heterogeneity in the distribution, with a meaningful mass of active
(non-index) funds having a modest Active Share of 60% or less. It is this cross-sectional
dispersion in active management that we conjecture will show up as dispersion in fund
performance. Because pure index funds are conceptually di¤erent from active funds, we
conduct the entire performance analysis only for active (non-index) funds.12
5.1
Fund Performance: Active Share vs. Tracking Error
The sample consists of monthly returns for each fund. A fund is included in the sample in
a given month if it has reported its holdings in the previous twelve months. Each month
we sort funds …rst into Active Share quintiles and then further into tracking error quintiles.
We compute the equal-weighted benchmark-adjusted return within each of the 25 fund
portfolios and then take the time series average of these returns over the entire sample
period.
Panel A in Table 4 shows the average benchmark-adjusted net returns on these fund
portfolios. When we regress the monthly benchmark-adjusted returns on the four-factor
model of Carhart (1997), thus controlling for exposure to the market, size, value, and
momentum, we obtain the alphas shown in Panel B.
The average fund loses to its benchmark index by 0.43% per year, and the loss increases
to 1.14% when controlling for the four-factor model. Tracking error does not help us much
when picking funds: the marginal distribution across all tracking error quintiles shows con-
sistently negative benchmark-adjusted returns and alphas. Going from low to high tracking
error may even hurt performance, which is statistically signi…cant for the lowest Active
Share groups.
In contrast, Active Share does improve fund performance relative to the benchmark.
The di¤erence in benchmark-adjusted return between the highest and lowest Active Share
quintiles is 2.55% per year (t = 3:47), which further increases to 2.98% (t = 4:51) with
the four-factor model.
The di¤erence in abnormal returns is positive and economically
signi…cant within all tracking error quintiles. An investor should clearly avoid the lowest
three Active Share quintiles and instead pick from the highest Active Share quintile. Funds
in the highest Active Share quintile beat their benchmarks by 1.13% (t = 1:60), or 1.15%
(t = 1:86) with the four-factor model.
Panels A and B in Table 5 report the corresponding results for gross returns.
The
12Index funds are identi…ed by two methods: sorting all funds by Active Share as well as searching for
the words “index”or “idx”in the CRSP fund name.
20
high Active Share funds again outperform the low Active Share funds with both economical
and statistical signi…cance. The benchmark-adjusted returns indicate that the lowest Active
Share funds essentially match their benchmark returns while the highest Active Share funds
beat their benchmarks by 2.40% per year (t = 2:80). The four-factor model reduces the
performance of all fund portfolios but does not change the di¤erence in returns across
Active Share and still leaves an economically signi…cant 1.51% outperformance for the
highest Active Share funds (t = 2:23). Tracking error again exhibits a zero to negative (but
statistically insigni…cant) relationship to fund performance.
The evidence in these two panels suggests that the funds with low Active Share and high
tracking error tend to do worst, both in terms of net and gross returns, which implies that
factor bets tend to destroy value for fund investors. Closet indexers (low Active Share, low
tracking error) also exhibit no ability and tend to lose money after fees and transaction costs.
The best performers are concentrated stock pickers (high Active Share, high tracking error),
followed by diversi…ed stock pickers (high Active Share, low tracking error). Both groups
appear to have stock-picking ability, and even after fees and transaction costs the most active
of them beat their benchmarks. If we reverse the order of sorting, the results are similar:
Active Share is related to returns even within tracking error quintiles, while tracking error
does not have such predictive power. If we estimate tracking error from monthly returns
rather than daily returns, it similarly fails to predict fund returns. A separate subperiod
analysis of 1990-1996 and 1997-2003 produces very similar point estimates for both seven-
year periods, so the results seem consistent over the entire sample period.
Our general results about the pro…tability of stock selection and factor timing agree with
Daniel, Grinblatt, Titman, and Wermers (1997), who …nd that managers can add value with
their stock selection but not with their factor timing. Because we develop explicit measures
of active management, we can re…ne their results by distinguishing between funds based on
their degree and type of active management, thus establishing the best and worst-performing
subsets of funds.
We also complement the work of Kacperczyk, Sialm, and Zheng (2005) who …nd that
mutual funds with concentrated industry bets tend to outperform. Their Industry Con-
centration Index is highest among the concentrated stock pickers and lowest among the
closet indexers, with the diversi…ed stock picks and factor bets in the middle. As our paper
adds a second dimension of active management, we can further distinguish between these
middle groups of funds. This is important for performance because the diversi…ed stock
picks outperform and factor bets underperform; consequently, Active Share turns out to
21
be the dimension of active management that best predicts performance. We discuss the
comparison in more detail in Section 5.6.
Part of the di¤erence in net return between the high and low Active Share funds arises
from a di¤erence in the “return gap”of Kacperczyk, Sialm, and Zheng (2006). This accounts
for 0.64% of the 2.55% spread in benchmark-adjusted net return and 1.22% of the 2.98%
spread in four-factor alphas. Hence, if the high Active Share funds have higher trading costs,
this is more than o¤set by the funds’short-term trading ability and their other unobserved
actions. Yet most of the net return di¤erence between the high and low Active Share funds
still comes from the long-term performance of their stock holdings.
The four-factor betas across all funds when their benchmark-adjusted returns are re-
gressed on the market excess return, SMB, HML, and UMD are small on average (-0.01,
0.11, 0.05, and 0.02, respectively), which means that funds collectively do not exhibit a
tilt toward any of the four sources of systematic risk. Across Active Share groups, there
is no pattern in any of the betas. Across tracking error groups there is more variation in
systematic risk: funds with high tracking error tend to be more exposed to market beta
and small stocks, with slight preferences for growth stocks and momentum. This exposure
seems natural because systematic risk is precisely what produces a high tracking error for
a fund.
5.2
Fund Size and Active Share
Since fund size is related to both active management and fund returns, we next investigate
how size interacts with Active Share when predicting fund returns. We sort funds into
quintiles …rst by fund size and then by Active Share. The results are reported in Table 6.
The median fund sizes for the size quintiles across the sample period are $28M, $77M,
$184M, $455M, and $1,600M. In the 25 basic portfolios sorted on Active Share and tracking
error, median fund size varies from about $100M to $400M.
Controlling for size, Active Share again predicts fund performance. Within the smallest
fund size quintile, the di¤erence between net benchmark-adjusted returns for the top versus
the bottom Active Share quintiles equals 2.92% per year and 3.78% after adjusting for the
four-factor model (only the four-factor alphas are reported in the table). Even within the
next two size quintiles, the di¤erence in net performance varies from 2.53% to 3.20% and
maintains its statistical signi…cance. For the second-largest fund quintile the di¤erence is
slightly lower, ranging from 1.72% to 1.83% per year, and is still statistically signi…cant. For
the largest fund quintile, the di¤erence is lower still at about 1.01% per year and is no longer
22
statistically signi…cant. Therefore, it is especially for the smaller funds (i.e., excluding the
largest 40% of funds) that the highest Active Share funds exhibit economically signi…cant
stock-picking ability: their stock picks outperform their benchmarks by about 2.5-3.8% per
year, net of fees and transaction costs.
Fund size alone is also negatively related to fund performance: the di¤erence between
the smallest versus the largest size quintile in benchmark-adjusted net alphas is 1.01%
(t = 3:05). This is consistent with the …ndings of Chen, Hong, Huang, and Kubik (2004).
However, fund size is helpful mostly in identifying the funds that underperform (the largest
funds); even the smallest funds on average still do not create value for their investors. To
identify funds that actually outperform, we also need to look at Active Share.
5.3
Active Share and Performance Persistence
If some managers have skill to beat their benchmark, we would expect persistence in their
performance. This persistence should be strongest among the most active funds. To in-
vestigate this, we sort funds into quintiles …rst by Active Share and then by each fund’s
benchmark-adjusted gross return over the prior one year. We report the results in Table 7
(only the four-factor alphas are shown).
The benchmark-adjusted net returns of the most active funds show remarkable persis-
tence: the spread between the prior-year winners and losers is 6.81% per year (t = 3:35). In
contrast, the least active funds have a spread of only 1.69% per year (t = 1:91). Most inter-
estingly, controlling for the four-factor model that includes momentum, the spread between
prior-year winners and losers for the most active funds decreases but remains economically
and statistically very signi…cant at 4.48% per year (t = 3:06). In contrast, the spread be-
tween prior-year winners and losers for the least active funds decreases to 0.47% per year
and is no longer signi…cant, which is consistent with the results of Carhart (1997).
From an investor’s point of view, the prior one-year winners within the highest Active
Share quintile seem very attractive, with a benchmark-adjusted 5.10% (t = 3:67) annual net
return and a 3.50% (t = 3:29) annualized alpha with respect to the four-factor model. The
performance of this subset of funds is also clearly statistically signi…cant, supporting the
existence of persistent managerial skill. If we run the same analysis only for below-median
size funds, the top managers emerge as even more impressive: their benchmark-adjusted
net returns are 6.49% (t = 4:40), or 4.84% (t = 4:04) after controlling for the four-factor
model. This suggests that investors should pick active funds based on all three measures:
Active Share, fund size, and prior one-year return.
23
5.4
Benchmark Performance and Active Share
One bene…t of Active Share is that it provides a relatively accurate estimate of each fund’s
o¢ cial benchmark index. This allows us to directly compare the performance of each fund
to that of its benchmark index; after all, that benchmark through a low-cost index fund
is the most direct investment alternative for a mutual fund investor. To control for any
remaining exposure to systematic risk, we compute the four-factor alphas of benchmark-
adjusted returns. However, we can also choose to ignore the o¢ cial benchmark indexes of
the funds and instead apply the four-factor model to the funds’returns in excess of the
risk-free rate. This gives us the standard Carhart alphas shown in Panel A of Table 8.
In stark contrast to our benchmark-adjusted returns, the Carhart alphas show no sig-
ni…cant relationship between Active Share and performance. The reason behind this is that
the benchmark indexes of the highest Active Share funds have a large negative Carhart
alpha, and the benchmark indexes of the lowest Active Share funds have a large positive
alpha, producing a spread of 2.75% (t = 2:53) in benchmark alphas (Panel B). For example,
individual indexes such as the S&P 500 and Russell 2000 have economically and statistically
signi…cant annual four-factor alphas of 1.08% (t = 2:72) and  2:73% (t =  2:58), respec-
tively, during our sample period. Yet it would be inappropriate to attribute the 1.08% alpha
to the “skill”of a purely mechanical S&P 500 index fund. Instead, these numbers suggest a
misspeci…cation in the four-factor model (see Cremers, Petajisto, and Zitzewitz (2008) for
a detailed analysis).
Adjusting fund returns for the benchmark index return e¤ectively recalibrates the alpha
of the benchmark to zero. This seems reasonable, as a passive benchmark index such as the
S&P 500 should almost by de…nition have a zero alpha. If we look at raw returns instead
of Carhart alphas, the performance spread across the benchmarks of high and low Active
Share funds is actually reversed, which casts further doubt on the four-factor alphas.
We prefer to focus on the benchmark-adjusted performance measures for the following
reasons: First, mutual funds are legally required to declare a benchmark index, and the
purpose of an active manager is to beat that benchmark. Both fund investors and fund
managers care about performance relative to this benchmark; they do not (or, arguably,
should not) care about unadjusted Carhart alphas, nor are most investors even aware of
them. Second, the benchmark indexes are easily tradable portfolios – there is a number
of products such as ETFs, index mutual funds, and various derivative contracts that allow
investors to tailor their exposure to a particular index at a low cost. This tradability also
puts benchmark indexes in direct competition with active managers in terms of attracting
24
assets. In contrast, the Carhart factors are not directly tradable, and they would be very
costly if not impossible for mutual fund investors to replicate due to e.g. short positions
they require in small and micro-cap stocks.
Furthermore, the benchmark adjustment alone (with our set of 19 benchmarks) already
accounts for most of the style di¤erences across funds. The benchmark-adjusted returns
have factor betas that are generally close to zero, and the di¤erences in betas between the
top and bottom Active Share quintiles for market excess return, SMB, HML, and UMD are
only -0.02, 0.00, 0.00, and -0.03, respectively (all statistically insigni…cant). Consequently,
using the four-factor model makes relatively little di¤erence for benchmark-adjusted returns
across Active Share groups, although it does matter slightly more across tracking error
groups. Hence, our main result of predicting fund returns using Active Share is very robust
to whether or not returns are adjusted for the Carhart model.
5.5
Fund Performance in a Multivariate Regression
To directly isolate the e¤ect of di¤erent fund characteristics on fund performance, we run
pooled panel regressions of fund performance on all the explanatory variables (Table 9).
The values for the independent variables are chosen at the end of each year, while the de-
pendent variable is performance over the following year. We use three di¤erent performance
metrics: four-factor alphas of benchmark-adjusted returns, four-factor alphas of excess re-
turns (relative to the risk-free rate), and the Characteristic Selectivity (CS) measure of
Daniel, Grinblatt, Titman, and Wermers (1997). The …rst two metrics are calculated using
net returns whereas the CS measure is based on gross returns.
The list of explanatory variables includes Active Share, tracking error, turnover, ex-
pense ratio, the number of stocks, fund size, fund age, manager tenure, prior in‡ows, prior
benchmark returns, and prior benchmark-adjusted returns. As Active Share was shown
earlier to be more strongly related to fund performance for smaller funds, we also include
the interaction of Active Share with a dummy variable indicating below-median fund size
for that year. Since the pooled panel regressions exhibit signi…cant residual correlations
within a year, we also include year dummies and cluster standard errors by year in each
regression.
Active Share comes up as a highly signi…cant predictor of future benchmark-adjusted
net alphas (column 1), with a coe¢ cient of 0.0722 and a t-statistic of 2.42. This means
that, controlling for the other variables, a 30% increase in Active Share is associated with
an increase of 2.17% in benchmark-adjusted alpha over the following year. Rather than
25
being subsumed by other variables, the predictive power of Active Share actually goes up
when those other variables are added.
Unlike Active Share, tracking error produces a small negative e¤ect on future perfor-
mance, which is marginally statistically signi…cant. Size and expenses emerge as the most
signi…cant other predictors of returns. Size enters in a nonlinear but economically and sta-
tistically signi…cant way, showing that larger funds in our sample tend to underperform.
Column 2 con…rms that the relation between Active Share and performance is stronger
for smaller funds, as the interaction of Active Share and a dummy for below-median fund
size has a positive and signi…cant coe¢ cient. Overall, for below-median sized funds, a 30%
increase in Active Share is associated with an increase in benchmark-adjusted alphas of
2.41% per year.
In columns 3 and 4, our performance measure is the four-factor alpha over net excess
fund returns over the risk-free rate, thus without the benchmark-adjustment. As discussed
in the previous section, it is important to control both for nonzero alphas of the bench-
marks themselves and for di¤erences in benchmarks across Active Share levels. We aim to
account for both by adding dummy variables for all 19 benchmarks. The main result is that
the predictive ability of Active Share decreases but remains economically and statistically
signi…cant at the 10% level. As a …nal robustness check, we use a fund’s Characteristic
Selectivity (CS) measure of performance in columns 5 and 6. We again add benchmark
dummies to control for non-zero CS of the benchmarks and for di¤erences in benchmarks
across Active Share levels. For below-median size funds, there is a positive and signi…cant
coe¢ cient, indicating that a 30% increase in Active Share is associated with an increase in
next year’s CS of 0.87%. For above-median size funds, the predictive ability is about half
that but no longer statistically signi…cant.
5.6
Comparison of All Measures of Active Management
Table 10 shows a comparison of Active Share with other measures of active management.
We compare Active Share with tracking error, industry-level Active Share, Industry Con-
centration Index, stock concentration index, and turnover.13 Industry-level Active Share
is computed similarly to Active Share, except that it replaces individual stocks with 10
industry portfolios (as in Section 4.1.4). The Industry Concentration Index is computed
as in Kacperczyk, Sialm, and Zheng (2005) (see also Section A.1 of this paper), except
13The Pearson correlations of Active Share with these other measures are 45%, 62%, 36%, 49%, and 18%,
respectively, and the Spearman rank correlations are 56%, 60%, 60%, 60%, and 17%.
26
that the benchmark index is selected following the methodology of our paper. The stock
concentration index is analogous to the Industry Concentration Index, except that it uses
individual stocks rather than industry portfolios. Standard errors are clustered by year to
be conservative, and all regressions include year dummies.
We …rst consider each measure’s ability to predict performance measured as next year’s
benchmark-adjusted four-factor alpha from net returns (columns 1-8). In the univariate re-
gressions without control variables, Active Share, industry-level Active Share, and Industry
Concentration Index all come up as signi…cant, while tracking error, stock concentration
index, and turnover are not signi…cant. When all the variables are included in the same
regression (column 7), Active Share dominates the other variables, especially after we add
the control variables of Table 9 (column 8). In fact, Active Share is the only variable that
is clearly signi…cant and remains so in all of these regression speci…cations. Tracking error
has a negative sign that is marginally signi…cant, and the (marginal) predictive ability of
the Industry Concentration Index disappears after adding the controls.
Finally, columns 9 and 10 use four-factor alphas from excess net fund returns over the
risk-free rate, again also adding benchmark dummies. Active Share now predicts perfor-
mance only for below-median size funds.14
6
Conclusions
Traditionally the degree of active management is quanti…ed along just one dimension: track-
ing error relative to a benchmark index. Yet this fails to capture the two di¤erent dimensions
of active management: stock selection and factor timing.
This paper points out that active management can be measured in two dimensions with
Active Share and tracking error as convenient empirical proxies. Tracking error measures
the volatility of portfolio return around a benchmark index, thus emphasizing correlated
active bets such as exposure to systematic factor risk. Active Share measures the deviation
of portfolio holdings from the holdings of the benchmark index, placing equal weight on
all active bets regardless of diversi…cation and thus emphasizing stock selection. This new
methodology also allows us to empirically identify di¤erent types of active management:
14The positive and signi…cant coe¢ cient for Industry-level Active Share in column 10 should be interpreted
with caution. Industry-level Active Share has a high (85%) correlation with the Industry Concentration
Index, so this may be driven by multicollinearity. If either of these two is excluded (unreported result), then
the other is not signi…cant.
27
diversi…ed stock picks, concentrated stock picks, factor bets, closet indexing, and pure
indexing.
We apply this methodology to all-equity mutual funds, assigning a passive benchmark
index for each fund based on what index produces the lowest Active Share for the fund.
We …nd signi…cant dispersion along both dimensions of active management. We also …nd
evidence for the popular belief that small funds are more active, while a signi…cant fraction
of the largest funds are closet indexers. However, this pattern emerges only gradually after
$1bn in assets – before that, fund size does not matter much for the fraction of active
positions in the portfolio.
There has been a signi…cant shift from active to passive management over the 1990s. Part
of this is due to index funds, but an even larger part is due to closet indexers and a general
tendency of funds to mimic the holdings of benchmark indexes more closely. Furthermore,
about half of all active positions at the fund level cancel out within the mutual fund sector,
thus making the aggregate mutual fund positions even less active.
Active management, as measured by Active Share, signi…cantly predicts fund perfor-
mance relative to the benchmark. Funds with the highest Active Share outperform their
benchmarks both before and after expenses, while funds with the lowest Active Share un-
derperform after expenses. In contrast, active management as measured by tracking error
does not predict higher returns.
The relationship between Active Share and benchmark-adjusted fund returns exists for
all fund sizes but it is stronger within the bottom three fund size quintiles than within the
top two quintiles. We also …nd strong evidence for performance persistence for the funds
with the highest Active Share, even after controlling for momentum. From an investor’s
point of view, funds with the highest Active Share, smallest assets, and best one-year
performance seem very attractive, outperforming their benchmarks by 6.5% per year net of
fees and expenses.
The main advantage of our methodology is that it allows us to distinguish between dif-
ferent types of active funds as well as to focus on the ones that are truly active. This could
also help other researchers re…ne and potentially improve their existing results. Further-
more, our approach will allow researchers to investigate the risk-taking and incentives of
mutual fund managers from a new and economically meaningful perspective.
28
References
[1] Asness, C., 2004, “An Alternative Future,” Journal of Portfolio Management, 30th
Anniversary Issue, 94-103.
[2] Berk, J.B. and R.C. Green, 2004, “Mutual Fund Flows and Performance in Rational
Markets,”Journal of Political Economy, vol. 112, no. 6, 1269-1295.
[3] Bollen, N.P.B. and J.A. Busse, 2004, “Short-Term Persistence in Mutual Fund Perfor-
mance,”Review of Financial Studies, vol. 18, no. 2, 569-597.
[4] Brinson, G.P., L.R. Hood, and G.L. Beebower, 1986, “Determinants of Portfolio Per-
formance,”Financial Analysts Journal, vol. 42, no. 4, 39-44.
[5] Brown, S.J. and W.N. Goetzmann, 1995, “Performance Persistence,” Journal of Fi-
nance, vol. 50, no. 2, 679-698.
[6] Brown, S.J. and W.N. Goetzmann, 1997, “Mutual Fund Styles,”Journal of Financial
Economics, vol. 43, 373-399.
[7] Carhart, M., 1997, “On Persistence in Mutual Fund Returns,”Journal of Finance, vol.
52, no. 1, 57-82.
[8] Chen, J., H. Hong, M. Huang, and J.D. Kubik, 2004, “Does Fund Size Erode Per-
formance? Organizational Diseconomies and Active Money Management,” American
Economic Review, vol. 94, no. 5, 1276-1302.
[9] Cohen, R.B., J.D. Coval, and L. Pastor, 2005, “Judging Fund Managers by the Com-
pany They Keep,”Journal of Finance, vol. 60, no. 3, 1057-1096.
[10] Cremers, K.J.M., A. Petajisto, and E. Zitzewitz, 2008, “Should Benchmark Indices
Have Alpha: Revisiting Performance Evaluation,”working paper.
[11] Daniel, K., M. Grinblatt, S. Titman, and R. Wermers, 1997, “Measuring Mutual Fund
Performance with Characteristic-Based Benchmarks,”Journal of Finance, vol. 52, no.
3, 1035-1058.
[12] Evans, R.B., 2004, “A Does Alpha Really Matter? Evidence from Mutual Fund Incu-
bation, Termination, and Manager Change,”working paper.
[13] Fama, E.F., 1972, “Components of Investment Performance,”Journal of Finance, vol.
27, no. 3, 551-567.
29
[14] Frazzini, A., 2005, “The Disposition E¤ect and Underreaction to News,” Journal of
Finance, forthcoming.
[15] Goetzmann, W.N., Z. Ivkovic, and K.G. Rouwenhorst, 2001, “Day Trading Interna-
tional Mutual Funds: Evidence and Policy Solutions,”Journal of Financial and Quan-
titative Analysis, vol. 36, no. 3, 287-309.
[16] Grinblatt, M. and S. Titman, 1989, “Mutual Fund Performance: An Analysis of Quar-
terly Portfolio Holdings,”Journal of Business, vol. 62, no. 3, 393-416.
[17] Grinblatt, M. and S. Titman, 1993, “Performance Measurement without Benchmarks:
An Examination of Mutual Fund Returns,”Journal of Business, vol. 66, no. 1, 47-68.
[18] Grinold, R.C. and R.N. Kahn, 1999, Active Portfolio Management, 2nd Edition,
McGraw-Hill.
[19] Gruber, M.J., 1996, “Another Puzzle:
The Growth in Actively Managed Mutual
Funds,”Journal of Finance, vol. 51, no. 3, 783-810.
[20] Jensen, M.C., 1968, “The Performance of Mutual Funds in the Period 1945-1964,”
Journal of Finance, vol. 23, no. 2, 389-416.
[21] Jorion, P., 2003, “Portfolio Optimization with Tracking-Error Constraints,”Financial
Analysts Journal, vol. 59, no. 5, 70-82.
[22] Kacperczyk, M.T., C. Sialm, and L. Zheng, 2005, “On Industry Concentration of
Actively Managed Equity Mutual Funds,” Journal of Finance, vol. 60, no. 4, 1983-
2011.
[23] Kacperczyk, M.T., C. Sialm, and L. Zheng, 2006, “Unobserved Actions of Mutual
Funds,”Review of Financial Studies, forthcoming.
[24] Mamaysky, H., M. Spiegel, and H. Zhang, 2006, “Improved Forecasting of Mutual Fund
Alphas and Betas,”Yale ICF working paper.
[25] Pastor, L. and R.F. Stambaugh, 2002, “Mutual Fund Performance and Seemingly
Unrelated Assets,”Journal of Financial Economics, vol. 63, 315–349.
[26] Petajisto, A., 2007, “Why Do Demand Curves for Stocks Slope Down?” Journal of
Financial and Quantitative Analysis, forthcoming.
30
[27] Pollet, J.M. and M. Wilson, 2006, “How Does Size A¤ect Mutual Fund Behavior?”
working paper.
[28] Roll, R., 1992, “A Mean/Variance Analysis of Tracking Error,” Journal of Portfolio
Management, vol. 18, no. 4, 13-22.
[29] Sensoy, B.A., 2006, “Incentives and Mutual Fund Benchmarks,”working paper.
[30] Wermers, R., 1999, “Mutual Fund Herding and the Impact on Stock Prices,”Journal
of Finance, vol. 54, no. 2, 581-622.
[31] Wermers, R., 2000, “Mutual Fund Performance: An Empirical Decomposition into
Stock-Picking Talent, Style, Transactions Costs, and Expenses,” Journal of Finance,
vol. 55, no. 4, 1655-1695.
[32] Wermers, R., 2003, “Are Mutual Fund Shareholders Compensated for Active Manage-
ment ‘Bets’?,”working paper.
31
Appendix A: Other Measures of Active Management
A.1
Industry Concentration Index
Kacperczyk, Sialm, and Zheng (2005) investigate a related question about the industry
concentration of mutual funds. They call their measure the Industry Concentration Index,
which they de…ne as
Industry Concentration Index =
I
X
i=1
(wfund;i   windex;i)2 ;
where wfund;i and windex;i are the weights of industry i in the fund and in the index, and
they sum up across I industry portfolios (instead of N individual stocks). They also use
the CRSP value-weighted index as their only benchmark. A more fundamental di¤erence
between Active Share and the Industry Concentration Index arises from the fact that the
latter uses squared weights. For our study, we prefer to use Active Share for three reasons.
First, Active Share has a convenient economic interpretation: it immediately tells us
the percentage of a fund that is di¤erent from the benchmark index. If the weights are
squared, the numerical value loses this interpretation, and its main purpose is then just to
rank funds relative to each other.
Second, di¤erent funds have di¤erent benchmark indexes, yet Active Share can still
be easily applied when comparing any two funds: a 90% Active Share means essentially
the same thing whether the benchmark is the S&P 500 (with 500 stocks) or the Russell
2000 (with 2,000 stocks). If we square the weights, we lose the ability to make such easy
comparisons across indexes because the number of stocks begins to matter. For example, if
a fund with the Russell 2000 as a benchmark is likely to have more stocks in its portfolio
than a fund with the S&P 500 as a benchmark because the Russell 2000 investment universe
contains four times as many stocks, then the typical active weight in a stock will be smaller
and thus the sum of squares will be smaller.
Third, the squared weights make the Industry Concentration Index something of a
hybrid between Active Share and tracking error.15
However, to get a more complete
picture of active management, we need to quantify it along two separate dimensions. We
15Assume a fund has no systematic risk except for an index beta of 1. Its tracking error is then given by
 (Rfund   Rindex) = 
 N
X
i=1
(wfund;i   windex;i) Ri
!
=
v
u
u
t
N
X
i=1
(wfund;i   windex;i)2 2"i:
If the stocks (or industry portfolios) have a similar idiosyncratic volatility 2
"i, then tracking error will be
approximately proportional to the square root of the Industry Concentration Index.
32
therefore pick two measures which are as di¤erent from each other as possible, and here
Active Share and tracking error seem to satisfy that objective.
A.2
Turnover
Portfolio turnover has also been suggested as a measure of active management. For our
purposes it has some signi…cant shortcomings and plays only a minor role in our tests.
Although portfolio turnover implies an action (i.e., trading) by the fund manager,
turnover per se cannot add value to a portfolio –only holding a position does. Turnover
just measures the frequency of revisions in the manager’s active bets (i.e., positions), but
it does not measure the activeness of the bets themselves. These are two di¤erent kinds of
activeness: either “being busy” with the portfolio, or holding positions that di¤er signi…-
cantly from the benchmark and thus have a chance to outperform or underperform. This
paper focuses on the latter de…nition.16
Fund in‡ows and out‡ows can also generate additional turnover which does not tell us
anything about the active management of the fund. Furthermore, if turnover is widely used
as a measure of active management, less active funds may have an incentive to generate
unnecessary trades to appear more active.
Appendix B: Tables
16To illustrate this, let us consider the famous Legg Mason Value Trust which beat the S&P 500 index
15 years in a row: in 2003 it had an Active Share of 86%, holding only 30 stocks in the portfolio, yet it had
a turnover of only 25%. The same year, iShares Russell 2000 index fund had a turnover of 30% because of
turnover in the underlying index. The low turnover of Legg Mason Value Trust simply indicates the long
investment horizon of its stock picks rather than any adherence to a benchmark index.
33
Table 1: All-equity mutual funds in the US in 2002, sorted by the two dimensions of
active management. Active share is de…ned as the percentage of a fund’s portfolio holdings
that di¤er from the fund’s benchmark index. It is computed based on Spectrum mutual
fund holdings data and index composition data for 19 common benchmark indexes from
S&P, Russell, and Wilshire. Tracking error is de…ned as the annualized standard deviation
of the error term when the excess return on a fund is regressed on the excess return on its
benchmark index. It is computed based on daily fund returns and daily index returns over a
six-month period before the corresponding portfolio holdings are reported. To include only
all-equity funds, every fund classi…ed by CRSP as balanced or asset allocation has been
removed from the sample. Also sector funds have been eliminated. In Panel A, if a cell has
less than 5 observations (fund-dates), it is shown as empty. In Panel B, a statistic must be
based on at least 5 funds to be reported.
Panel A: Number of mutual funds
Tracking error (% per year)
Active share (%)
0-2
2-4
4-6
6-8
8-10
10-12
12-14
>14
All
90-100
66
125
77
41
22
26
358
80-90
17
100
120
54
24
10
10
336
70-80
26
124
83
27
5
7
10
281
60-70
75
115
41
12
1
247
50-60
3
102
55
15
3
179
40-50
9
66
20
98
30-40
15
27
3
47
20-30
11
4
14
10-20
8
10
0-10
104
4
109
All
150
323
482
388
174
73
41
48
1678
Panel B: Median net asset value ($M)
Tracking error (% per year)
Active share (%)
0-2
2-4
4-6
6-8
8-10
10-12
12-14
>14
All
90-100
174
127
97
95
93
51
115
80-90
264
263
177
109
128
206
43
183
70-80
264
163
149
185
237
96
26
156
60-70
379
256
208
180
259
50-60
262
256
257
251
40-50
151
304
281
275
30-40
535
269
267
20-30
200
196
10-20
58
58
0-10
480
480
All
395
303
220
162
110
110
92
48
190
Table 2: Expense ratios and annual portfolio turnover for all-equity mutual funds
in 2002, sorted by the two dimensions of active management.
The measures of active
management are computed as before. Turnover is de…ned by CRSP as the maximum of
annual stock purchases and annual stock sales, divided by the fund’s total net assets. To
include only all-equity funds, every fund classi…ed by CRSP as balanced or asset allocation
has been removed from the sample. Also sector funds have been eliminated. To be reported
in the table, a statistic must be based on at least 5 funds.
Panel A: Equal-weighted total expense ratio (%)
Tracking error (% per year)
Active share (%)
0-2
2-4
4-6
6-8
8-10
10-12
12-14
>14
All
90-100
1.33
1.37
1.51
1.47
1.49
1.50
1.42
80-90
1.30
1.30
1.43
1.44
1.43
1.37
2.11
1.41
70-80
1.19
1.29
1.37
1.33
1.40
1.85
1.34
1.33
60-70
1.10
1.24
1.35
1.37
1.23
50-60
1.04
1.21
1.43
1.14
40-50
1.12
1.08
1.07
1.08
30-40
1.03
1.06
1.08
20-30
0.92
0.88
10-20
0.71
0.75
0-10
0.47
0.47
All
0.62
1.08
1.27
1.39
1.44
1.45
1.54
1.59
1.24
Panel B: Equal-weighted turnover (%)
Tracking error (% per year)
Active share (%)
0-2
2-4
4-6
6-8
8-10
10-12
12-14
>14
All
90-100
71.2
101.7
107.8
118.2
140.0
198.5
108.8
80-90
93.5
101.9
133.5
124.5
134.1
210.2
147.5
123.5
70-80
69.3
91.7
98.6
133.8
80.7
74.2
123.9
96.1
60-70
69.0
93.9
107.5
108.0
89.2
50-60
65.5
92.0
87.4
76.8
40-50
57.1
69.7
61.6
67.3
30-40
72.9
117.4
97.8
20-30
141.7
148.9
10-20
60.0
66.1
0-10
18.1
18.4
All
38.2
73.9
89.9
111.1
116.5
119.1
145.3
170.0
94.8
35
Table 3: Determinants of Active Share for all-equity mutual funds in 1992-2003.
The dependent variable is Active Share for each fund-year observation. All the variables
are computed as before. Turnover and expense ratio are annualized values. Fund age and
fund manager tenure are measured in years. Fund in‡ows and returns are all cumulative
percentages. Index return represents the benchmark assigned to each fund, and return over
the index represents a fund’s net return (after all expenses) in excess of its benchmark index.
Index funds are excluded from the sample. Since the expense ratio and manager tenure are
missing before 1992, we limit all speci…cations to the same time period. Year …xed-e¤ects
are included in all speci…cations. The t-statistics (in parentheses) are based on standard
errors clustered by fund.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
Tracking error
1.4015
1.8111
1.7002
1.5965
1.5210
1.4439
(19.16)
(18.15)
(17.40)
(16.09)
(12.81)
(12.17)
Turnover
-0.0016
-0.0021
(0.65)
(0.66)
Expenses
4.4359
4.6230
4.6267
7.7859
(6.33)
(5.28)
(5.33)
(9.72)
lg(TNA)
0.0554
0.0601
0.0451
0.0614
0.0389
(2.96)
(3.16)
(2.02)
(2.87)
(1.62)
(lg(TNA))2
-0.0177
-0.0171
-0.0150
-0.0177
-0.0166
(4.85)
(4.58)
(3.56)
(4.36)
(3.65)
Number of stocks
-0.0001
(2.04)
Fund age
-0.0005
-0.0003
(2.26)
(1.06)
Manager tenure
0.0036
0.0041
(6.72)
(7.00)
In‡ow, t-1 to t
0.0052
0.0045
(1.30)
(1.04)
In‡ow, t-3 to t-1
0.0010
0.0019
(0.94)
(1.53)
Return over index, t-1 to t
0.1068
0.0996
0.1189
(8.12)
(7.45)
(8.21)
Return over index, t-3 to t-1
0.1103
0.1089
0.1478
(9.39)
(9.17)
(13.00)
Index return, t-1 to t
0.0655
0.0756
(5.28)
(6.02)
Index return, t-3 to t-1
-0.0619
-0.0570
-0.0469
(7.87)
(6.93)
(5.19)
Year dummies
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
N
11,726
11,726
11,726
11,554
8,417
8,320
8,374
R2
0.1316
0.2373
0.2642
0.2781
0.2984
0.3235
0.2037
Table 4: Net equal-weighted alphas for all-equity mutual funds in 1990-2003,
sorted by the two dimensions of active management. The measures of active management
are computed as before. Net fund returns are the returns to a fund investor after fees and
transaction costs. Index funds are excluded from the sample. The table shows annualized
returns, followed by t-statistics (in parentheses) based on White’s standard errors.
Panel A: Benchmark-adjusted return
Active Share
Tracking error quintile
quintile
Low
2
3
4
High
All
High-Low
High
0.09
0.39
1.34
2.76
1.05
1.13
0.97
(0.09)
(0.41)
(1.52)
(2.86)
(0.62)
(1.60)
(0.44)
4
-0.43
-0.15
0.56
0.50
0.76
0.25
1.20
(-0.61)
(-0.19)
(0.64)
(0.42)
(0.36)
(0.31)
(0.48)
3
-1.42
-0.98
-0.25
-0.49
-0.60
-0.75
0.82
(-2.06)
(-1.34)
(-0.29)
(-0.45)
(-0.35)
(-0.95)
(0.43)
2
-1.89
-1.14
-1.13
-1.01
-1.66
-1.37
0.23
(-3.20)
(-1.55)
(-1.53)
(-1.08)
(-1.22)
(-1.99)
(0.16)
Low
-1.35
-1.32
-1.28
-1.51
-1.63
-1.42
-0.28
(-4.95)
(-3.68)
(-2.77)
(-2.76)
(-2.13)
(-3.53)
(-0.39)
All
-1.00
-0.64
-0.15
0.05
-0.42
-0.43
0.58
(-1.92)
(-1.24)
(-0.24)
(0.06)
(-0.30)
(-0.76)
(0.36)
High-Low
1.44
1.71
2.62
4.26
2.68
2.55
(1.50)
(1.71)
(2.97)
(4.36)
(1.80)
(3.47)
Panel B: Four-factor alpha of benchmark-adjusted return
Active Share
Tracking error quintile
quintile
Low
2
3
4
High
All
High-Low
High
1.44
0.79
0.48
2.72
0.29
1.15
-1.15
(1.79)
(1.02)
(0.68)
(3.17)
(0.22)
(1.86)
(-0.74)
4
-0.11
-0.91
-0.88
-1.52
-1.64
-1.02
-1.53
(-0.22)
(-1.17)
(-1.23)
(-1.63)
(-1.33)
(-1.63)
(-1.08)
3
-1.05
-1.41
-1.58
-2.25
-2.86
-1.83
-1.81
(-1.97)
(-2.15)
(-2.34)
(-2.23)
(-2.51)
(-2.84)
(-1.59)
2
-1.46
-1.47
-1.82
-2.67
-3.43
-2.18
-1.97
(-3.31)
(-2.29)
(-2.99)
(-3.31)
(-3.61)
(-4.00)
(-2.17)
Low
-1.29
-1.36
-1.66
-2.26
-2.57
-1.83
-1.28
(-4.80)
(-4.80)
(-4.33)
(-4.43)
(-3.73)
(-5.01)
(-2.13)
All
-0.50
-0.87
-1.09
-1.20
-2.05
-1.14
-1.55
(-1.45)
(-2.13)
(-2.58)
(-1.81)
(-2.28)
(-2.53)
(-1.68)
High-Low
2.73
2.16
2.13
4.99
2.86
2.98
(3.33)
(2.52)
(2.61)
(5.60)
(2.26)
(4.51)
Table 5: Gross equal-weighted alphas for all-equity mutual funds in 1990-2003,
sorted by the two dimensions of active management. The measures of active management
are computed as before. Gross fund returns are the returns on a fund’s portfolio and do
not include any fees or transaction costs. Index funds are excluded from the sample. The
table shows annualized returns, followed by t-statistics (in parentheses) based on White’s
standard errors.
Panel A: Benchmark-adjusted return
Active Share
Tracking error quintile
quintile
Low
2
3
4
High
All
High-Low
High
1.34
1.56
3.01
3.34
2.72
2.40
1.38
(1.61)
(1.67)
(3.30)
(2.70)
(1.29)
(2.80)
(0.60)
4
1.02
1.32
1.35
1.39
1.58
1.33
0.56
(1.56)
(1.59)
(1.28)
(0.97)
(0.64)
(1.28)
(0.20)
3
0.09
0.78
0.97
1.19
1.06
0.81
0.97
(0.16)
(1.03)
(1.10)
(1.00)
(0.54)
(0.94)
(0.46)
2
-0.24
0.13
0.68
0.59
0.02
0.24
0.26
(-0.54)
(0.23)
(0.93)
(0.59)
(0.01)
(0.34)
(0.17)
Low
0.00
0.37
0.06
0.22
-0.08
0.11
-0.08
(-0.02)
(1.24)
(0.14)
(0.40)
(-0.10)
(0.29)
(-0.10)
All
0.44
0.83
1.22
1.35
1.05
0.98
0.61
(1.04)
(1.56)
(1.82)
(1.42)
(0.63)
(1.41)
(0.34)
High-Low
1.35
1.19
2.95
3.13
2.81
2.29
(1.68)
(1.27)
(3.47)
(2.79)
(1.70)
(3.05)
Panel B: Four-factor alpha of benchmark-adjusted return
Active Share
Tracking error quintile
quintile
Low
2
3
4
High
All
High-Low
High
1.39
0.86
1.38
2.50
1.37
1.51
-0.02
(1.80)
(1.00)
(1.76)
(2.54)
(1.02)
(2.23)
(-0.02)
4
0.42
-0.23
-0.92
-1.28
-1.08
-0.63
-1.50
(0.76)
(-0.27)
(-1.07)
(-1.12)
(-0.78)
(-0.81)
(-1.01)
3
-0.33
-0.38
-0.88
-1.24
-1.58
-0.89
-1.26
(-0.55)
(-0.52)
(-1.15)
(-1.19)
(-1.40)
(-1.28)
(-1.08)
2
-0.59
-0.83
-0.60
-1.58
-2.21
-1.17
-1.63
(-1.42)
(-1.59)
(-0.98)
(-1.93)
(-2.32)
(-2.14)
(-1.73)
Low
-0.30
-0.13
-0.67
-0.72
-1.31
-0.63
-1.01
(-1.18)
(-0.47)
(-1.62)
(-1.41)
(-1.98)
(-1.73)
(-1.69)
All
0.12
-0.14
-0.34
-0.46
-0.97
-0.36
-1.09
(0.32)
(-0.28)
(-0.63)
(-0.62)
(-1.06)
(-0.69)
(-1.18)
High-Low
1.69
0.99
2.05
3.22
2.68
2.13
(2.15)
(1.12)
(2.57)
(3.41)
(2.21)
(3.29)
Table 6: Net equal-weighted alphas for all-equity mutual funds in 1990-2003,
sorted by fund size and Active Share (sequentially and in that order).
Active Share is
computed as before. Net fund returns are the returns to a fund investor after fees and
transaction costs. Index funds are excluded from the sample. The table shows annualized
returns, followed by t-statistics (in parentheses) based on White’s standard errors.
Four-factor alpha of benchmark-adjusted return
Active Share
Fund size quintile
quintile
Low
2
3
4
High
All
High-Low
High
1.71
1.39
1.15
0.19
-0.67
0.75
-2.39
(1.97)
(1.58)
(1.61)
(0.25)
(-1.01)
(1.26)
(-2.60)
4
0.87
-0.24
-0.02
-1.55
-1.90
-0.57
-2.78
(1.09)
(-0.28)
(-0.02)
(-1.72)
(-2.61)
(-0.82)
(-3.74)
3
-1.47
-1.60
-2.11
-2.58
-1.54
-1.86
-0.07
(-2.21)
(-2.13)
(-2.97)
(-3.71)
(-2.36)
(-3.09)
(-0.12)
2
-1.95
-2.52
-2.79
-1.56
-2.16
-2.20
-0.21
(-3.24)
(-4.27)
(-4.56)
(-2.04)
(-3.88)
(-4.02)
(-0.43)
Low
-2.06
-1.81
-1.90
-1.64
-1.69
-1.82
0.38
(-3.97)
(-4.04)
(-4.61)
(-3.89)
(-5.30)
(-4.81)
(1.03)
All
-0.59
-0.96
-1.14
-1.43
-1.60
-1.14
-1.01
(-1.34)
(-1.93)
(-2.41)
(-2.58)
(-3.41)
(-2.53)
(-3.05)
High-Low
3.78
3.20
3.05
1.83
1.01
2.57
(3.74)
(3.22)
(3.75)
(2.51)
(1.43)
(3.87)
Table 7: Net equal-weighted alphas for all-equity mutual funds in 1990-2003,
sorted by Active Share and prior one-year return (sequentially and in that order). The
prior return on a fund is measured as its benchmark-adjusted gross return over the previous
12 months. Only funds with at least 9 months of such returns are included. Active Share
is computed as before. Net fund returns are the returns to a fund investor after fees and
transaction costs. Index funds are excluded from the sample. The table shows annualized
returns, followed by t-statistics (in parentheses) based on White’s standard errors.
Four-factor alpha of benchmark-adjusted return
Active Share
Prior 1-year return quintile
quintile
Low
2
3
4
High
All
High-Low
High
-0.98
0.39
0.89
1.04
3.50
0.96
4.48
(-1.01)
(0.46)
(1.25)
(1.27)
(3.29)
(1.56)
(3.06)
4
-2.28
-1.83
-1.90
-0.44
0.46
-1.19
2.74
(-2.26)
(-2.14)
(-2.84)
(-0.59)
(0.41)
(-1.90)
(1.72)
3
-2.48
-2.65
-2.08
-1.78
-0.99
-2.00
1.49
(-2.39)
(-3.24)
(-2.67)
(-2.50)
(-1.04)
(-3.10)
(1.00)
2
-2.55
-2.16
-2.41
-1.77
-1.80
-2.14
0.75
(-2.47)
(-3.21)
(-4.60)
(-3.14)
(-2.30)
(-3.90)
(0.59)
Low
-2.05
-2.26
-1.78
-1.52
-1.58
-1.84
0.47
(-3.41)
(-5.85)
(-4.97)
(-3.42)
(-3.14)
(-5.01)
(0.70)
All
-2.07
-1.72
-1.47
-0.90
-0.11
-1.26
1.96
(-2.69)
(-3.08)
(-3.30)
(-1.99)
(-0.15)
(-2.76)
(1.74)
High-Low
1.07
2.65
2.67
2.56
5.08
2.80
(1.15)
(3.14)
(3.45)
(2.67)
(4.91)
(4.33)
Table 8: Equal-weighted Carhart alphas of mutual funds and their benchmark
indexes in 1990-2003, sorted by the two dimensions of active management of the funds.
The measures of active management are computed as before. Panel A shows the four-factor
alphas of net fund returns in excess of the risk-free rate. Index funds are excluded from the
sample. Panel B shows the four-factor alphas of returns on the o¢ cial benchmark indexes
of the funds in Panel A. The table shows annualized returns, followed by t-statistics (in
parentheses) based on White’s standard errors.
Panel A: Four-factor alpha of excess return on funds
Active Share
Tracking error quintile
quintile
Low
2
3
4
High
All
High-Low
High
0.08
0.13
-0.93
0.72
-1.29
-0.25
-1.37
(0.06)
(0.10)
(-0.69)
(0.55)
(-0.73)
(-0.21)
(-0.80)
4
-1.40
-0.33
-1.37
-2.34
-1.13
-1.31
0.26
(-1.41)
(-0.28)
(-1.37)
(-1.83)
(-0.76)
(-1.32)
(0.15)
3
-1.28
-0.24
-0.90
-1.77
-1.17
-1.08
0.11
(-1.37)
(-0.27)
(-1.09)
(-1.64)
(-0.97)
(-1.35)
(0.07)
2
-1.29
-0.35
-0.62
-1.22
-1.65
-1.03
-0.36
(-2.11)
(-0.49)
(-1.08)
(-1.64)
(-1.77)
(-2.05)
(-0.32)
Low
-0.65
-0.16
-0.30
-0.41
-0.88
-0.47
-0.23
(-1.76)
(-0.41)
(-0.60)
(-0.78)
(-1.38)
(-1.24)
(-0.35)
All
-0.91
-0.19
-0.82
-1.00
-1.22
-0.83
-0.32
(-1.25)
(-0.25)
(-1.18)
(-1.17)
(-1.18)
(-1.19)
(-0.27)
High-Low
0.73
0.29
-0.63
1.13
-0.41
0.23
(0.67)
(0.24)
(-0.51)
(0.91)
(-0.25)
(0.21)
Panel B: Four-factor alpha of excess return on benchmark indexes
Active Share
Tracking error quintile
quintile
Low
2
3
4
High
All
High-Low
High
-1.36
-0.66
-1.40
-2.00
-1.58
-1.40
-0.22
(-1.07)
(-0.54)
(-1.16)
(-2.01)
(-1.64)
(-1.36)
(-0.20)
4
-1.28
0.57
-0.49
-0.82
0.51
-0.29
1.79
(-1.26)
(0.67)
(-0.61)
(-0.99)
(0.67)
(-0.43)
(1.53)
3
-0.23
1.17
0.68
0.48
1.69
0.76
1.92
(-0.31)
(1.99)
(1.16)
(0.77)
(2.33)
(1.70)
(1.61)
2
0.17
1.12
1.20
1.45
1.79
1.15
1.61
(0.33)
(2.28)
(2.19)
(2.54)
(2.62)
(2.83)
(1.72)
Low
0.64
1.20
1.36
1.86
1.69
1.35
1.05
(1.70)
(2.91)
(2.75)
(2.93)
(2.57)
(3.05)
(1.69)
All
-0.41
0.68
0.27
0.20
0.82
0.31
1.23
(-0.60)
(1.19)
(0.51)
(0.36)
(1.45)
(0.66)
(1.43)
High-Low
-2.00
-1.86
-2.76
-3.85
-3.27
-2.75
(-1.72)
(-1.55)
(-2.22)
(-3.36)
(-2.69)
(-2.53)
Table 9: Predictive regression for fund performance in 1992-2003. The dependent
variable in columns 1-4 is based on the cumulative net return (after all expenses) over
calendar year t, while the independent variables are measured at the end of year t   1.
Alphas are computed with respect to the four-factor model. All explanatory variables are
computed as before in Table 3. Index funds are excluded from the sample. Since the expense
ratio and manager tenure are missing before 1992, we limit all speci…cations to the same time
period. All speci…cations include year dummies, and columns 3-6 also include benchmark
dummies. The t-statistics (in parentheses) are based on standard errors clustered by year.
Benchmark-adjusted
Excess return (over
Characteristic
alphas
risk-free rate) alphas
Selectivity
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Active Share
0.0722
0.0666
0.0496
0.0450
0.0200
0.0154
(2.53)
(2.42)
(1.89)
(1.75)
(1.66)
(1.31)
Active Share
0.0139
0.0133
0.0136
* (Below median size)
(2.36)
(2.55)
(5.07)
Tracking error
-0.1454
-0.1459
-0.1006
-0.1022
-0.0567
-0.0578
(1.76)
(1.75)
(1.71)
(1.72)
(0.66)
(0.68)
Turnover
-0.0041
-0.0041
-0.0033
-0.0033
0.0003
0.0003
(0.84)
(0.84)
(0.78)
(0.78)
(0.10)
(0.10)
Expenses
-1.3117
-1.3024
-1.3447
-1.3348
-0.2797
-0.2694
(6.00)
(5.99)
(5.10)
(5.06)
(0.75)
(0.73)
log10(TNA)
-0.0187
-0.0013
-0.0127
0.0040
-0.0019
0.0155
(3.06)
(0.14)
(2.22)
(0.43)
(0.31)
(2.39)
(log10(TNA))2
0.0025
0.0003
0.0015
-0.0005
0.0003
-0.0019
(2.12)
(0.22)
(1.46)
(0.40)
(0.23)
(1.60)
Number of stocks / 100
0.0043
0.0043
0.0027
0.0028
0.0014
0.0015
(3.81)
(3.82)
(2.90)
(2.97)
(3.59)
(3.70)
Fund age / 100
-0.0213
-0.0214
-0.0129
-0.0130
-0.0088
-0.0089
(3.45)
(3.44)
(3.67)
(3.59)
(1.80)
(1.80)
Manager tenure / 100
0.0245
0.0250
0.0199
0.0201
0.0452
0.0453
(0.85)
(0.87)
(0.75)
(0.77)
(2.50)
(2.50)
In‡ow, t-1 to t
0.0025
0.0024
-0.0018
-0.0019
0.0033
0.0033
(0.77)
(0.74)
(0.53)
(0.56)
(0.88)
(0.85)
In‡ow, t-3 to t-1
0.0010
0.0010
0.0011
0.0012
0.0012
0.0012
(1.00)
(1.05)
(1.05)
(1.09)
(1.39)
(1.44)
Return over index, t-1 to t
0.0745
0.0739
0.0757
0.0753
0.0572
0.0566
(1.36)
(1.35)
(1.51)
(1.50)
(1.52)
(1.51)
Return over index, t-3 to t-1
-0.0353
-0.0350
-0.0378
-0.0374
-0.0749
-0.0746
(1.72)
(1.68)
(1.59)
(1.56)
(3.23)
(3.18)
Index return, t-1 to t
0.0369
0.0371
0.0010
0.0011
0.0325
0.0327
(1.40)
(1.42)
(0.12)
(0.13)
(3.31)
(3.24)
Index return, t-3 to t-1
-0.0233
-0.0228
-0.0563
-0.0560
-0.0559
-0.0556
(0.65)
(0.64)
(2.80)
(2.82)
(5.45)
(5.42)
N
8,232
8,232
8,232
8,232
6,615
6,615
R2
0.0376
0.0395
0.1768
0.1778
0.168
0.1694
Table 10: Predicting returns with di¤erent measures of active management in 1992-2003. The dependent variable is the
benchmark-adjusted cumulative net return (after all expenses) over calendar year t, while the independent variables are measured at
the end of year t   1. Active Share and tracking error are computed as before. Industry-level Active Share is computed similarly to
Active Share, except that it replaces individual stocks with 10 industry portfolios. The Industry Concentration Index is computed as in
Kacperczyk, Sialm, and Zheng (2005), except that the benchmark index is selected by following the same methodology as elsewhere in
this paper. The stock concentration index is computed just like the Industry Concentration Index, except that it uses individual stocks
rather than industry portfolios. Turnover is an annualized value. The control variables include all the remaining variables in Table 9.
Index funds are excluded from the sample. Since the expense ratio and manager tenure are missing before 1992, we limit all speci…cations
to the same time period. All speci…cations include year dummies, and columns 9-10 also include benchmark dummies. The t-statistics
(in parentheses) are based on standard errors clustered by year.
Excess return (over
Benchmark-adjusted alphas
risk-free rate) alphas
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
Active Share
0.0560
0.0751
0.0612
0.0067
0.0172
(2.70)
(2.39)
(2.11)
(0.32)
(0.73)
Active Share
0.0115
0.0141
0.0123
0.0130
* (Below median size)
(2.26)
(2.40)
(3.07)
(2.52)
Tracking error
-0.0604
-0.2017
-0.1463
-0.1870
-0.1181
(0.62)
(1.76)
(1.77)
(2.06)
(1.88)
Industry-level Active Share
0.0396
-0.0283
0.0464
0.0303
0.0845
(1.82)
(0.56)
(0.93)
(0.60)
(1.83)
Industry Concentration Index
0.0816
0.1321
-0.0755
0.0606
-0.1243
(2.74)
(1.84)
(1.13)
(0.84)
(2.61)
Stock concentration Index
0.0388
-0.3070
-0.0503
0.0763
0.1434
(0.18)
(1.18)
(0.18)
(0.31)
(0.58)
Turnover
-0.0019
-0.0021
-0.0039
-0.0007
-0.0029
(0.35)
(0.43)
(0.78)
(0.14)
(0.69)
Control variables
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
Yes
No
Yes
N
11,480
11,480
11,480
11,480
11,481
11,351
11,351
8,232
11,351
8,232
R2
0.0098
0.0004
0.0032
0.0031
0.0002
0.0007
0.0184
0.0397
0.1381
0.1791
43
Appendix C: Figures
0
Low
High
0
Low
High
Tracking error
Active share
Diversified
stock picks
Closet
indexing
Factor
bets
Concentrated
stock picks
Pure
indexing
Figure 1:
Di¤erent types of active and passive management, as revealed by a two-
dimensional picture. Active Share represents the fraction of portfolio holdings that di¤er
from the benchmark index, thus emphasizing stock selection. Tracking error is the volatility
of fund return in excess of the benchmark, so it emphasizes bets on systematic risk.
44
10
1
10
2
10
3
10
4
10
5
0
20
40
60
80
100
Fund size ($M)
Active Share (%)
Average
Marginal
Figure 2: Average Active Share for US large-cap all-equity mutual funds and the Active
Share of a marginal dollar in 2002. Fund size is total net assets expressed in millions of
dollars. We exclude all index funds and funds with less than $10M in stock holdings. The
average Active Share is estimated from a nonparametric kernel regression with a Gaussian
kernel and bandwidth equal to 0.5.
45
Active Share over Time
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
1980
1982
1984
1986
1988
1990
1992
1994
1996
1998
2000
2002
Year
Share of mutual fund assets (%)
80-100%
60-80%
40-60%
20-40%
0-20%
Figure 3: The share of all-equity mutual fund assets in each Active Share category in the
US in 1980-2003.
Average vs. Aggregate Active Share
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
1980 1982 1984 1986 1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002
Year
Active Share (%)
Equal-weighted
Value-weighted
Aggregate
Figure 4: Aggregate-level and fund-level Active Share for active funds with S&P 500
as the benchmark index.
Each year we compute the equal-weighted and value-weighted
(by fund size) Active Share across the funds.
We also aggregate the funds’portfolios into
one aggregate portfolio and compute its Active Share.
Index funds are excluded from the
sample.
46
