An Omitted Variable Bias Framework for Sensitivity
Analysis of Instrumental Variables
BY CARLOS CINELLI
Department of Statistics, University of Washington, Seattle.
cinelli@uw.edu
5
AND CHAD HAZLETT
Department of Statistics and Data Science, University of California, Los Angeles.
chazlett@ucla.edu
ABSTRACT
We develop an omitted variable bias framework for sensitivity analysis of instru-
10
mental variable estimates that naturally handles multiple side-effects (violations of
the exclusion restriction assumption) and confounders (violations of the ignorabil-
ity of the instrument assumption) of the instrument, exploits expert knowledge to
bound sensitivity parameters, and can be easily implemented with standard soft-
ware. Speciﬁcally, we introduce sensitivity statistics for routine reporting, such as
15
(extreme) robustness values for instrumental variables, describing the minimum
strength that omitted variables need to have to change the conclusions of a study.
Next we provide visual displays that fully characterize the sensitivity of point es-
timates and conﬁdence intervals to violations of the standard instrumental variable
assumptions. Finally, we offer formal bounds on the worst possible bias under the
20
assumption that the maximum explanatory power of omitted variables is no stronger
than a multiple of the explanatory power of observed variables. Conveniently, many
pivotal conclusions regarding the sensitivity of the instrumental variable estimate
(e.g. tests against the null hypothesis of zero causal effect) can be reached simply
through separate sensitivity analyses of the effect of the instrument on the treatment
25
(the ﬁrst stage) and the effect of the instrument on the outcome (the reduced form).
We apply our methods in a running example that uses proximity to college as an
instrumental variable to estimate the returns to schooling.
Some key words: Instrumental Variables; Omitted Variable Bias; Sensitivity Analysis; Robustness Values.
1.
INTRODUCTION
30
Unobserved confounding often complicates efforts to make causal claims from observational
data (e.g. Pearl, 2009; Imbens and Rubin, 2015). Instrumental variable (IV) regression offers
a powerful and widely used tool to address unobserved confounding, by exploiting exogenous
sources of variation of the treatment (e.g. Angrist et al., 1996; Angrist and Pischke, 2009). IV
methods are “a central part of the econometrics canon since the ﬁrst half of the twentieth cen-
35
tury” (Imbens, 2014, p.324), and, beyond economics, are now prominent tools in the arsenal of
Forthcoming in Biometrika
2
CINELLI & HAZLETT
investigators seeking to make causal claims across the social sciences, epidemiology, medicine,
genetics, and other ﬁelds (see e.g. Hern´an and Robins, 2006; Burgess and Thompson, 2015).
Yet, instrumental variable methods carry their own set of demanding assumptions. Principally,
conditionally on certain observed covariates, an instrumental variable must not be confounded
40
with the outcome, and it should inﬂuence the outcome only by affecting uptake of the treatment.
In recent literature, the ﬁrst assumption is usually called exogeneity, ignorability, or unconfound-
edness of the instrument, whereas the second assumption is called the exclusion restriction (An-
grist and Pischke, 2009; Imbens and Rubin, 2015). These assumptions can be violated by omitted
confounders of the instrument-outcome association, and by omitted side-effects of the instrument
45
that inﬂuence the outcome via paths other than through the treatment. Although in certain cases
such assumptions may entail testable implications (Pearl, 1995; Gunsilius, 2020; K´edagni and
Mouriﬁ´e, 2020), they are often unveriﬁable and must be defended by appealing to domain knowl-
edge. Whether a given IV study identiﬁes the causal effect of interest, then, turns on debates as
to whether these assumptions hold.
50
Particularly in recent years, economists and other scholars have adopted a more skeptical pos-
ture towards instrumental variable methods, emphasizing the importance of both defending the
credibility of these assumptions as well as assessing the consequences of their failures (e.g.,
Deaton, 2009; Heckman and Urzua, 2010). Extensive reviews of many widely-used instrumental
variables have catalogued several plausible violations of the exclusion restriction for such instru-
55
ments (e.g Gallen, 2020; Mellon, 2020). More worrisome, if traditional assumptions fail to hold,
it is well known that the bias of the IV estimate may be worse than the original confounding bias
of the simple regression estimate (Bound et al., 1995). Therefore, researchers are also advised to
perform sensitivity analyses to assess the degree of violation of the IV assumptions that would
be required to alter the conclusions of a study.
60
While a number of sensitivity analyses for instrumental variables have been proposed (e.g.,
Small, 2007; Small and Rosenbaum, 2008; Conley et al., 2012; Wang et al., 2018; Cinelli et al.,
2019; Masten and Poirier, 2021), they have rarely been employed in practice. For example, in
economics, only 1 out of 27 papers using instrumental variables, published in the American
Economic Review in 2020, performed formal sensitivity analysis to unobserved variables. In
65
political science, this number was 1 out of 12 papers across the top three general interest journals
in 2019 (Cinelli and Hazlett, 2020). In Sociology, none of the 34 papers published between
2004 and 2022 in the American Journal of Sociology and the American Sociology Review did so
(Felton and Stewart, 2022). Note that sensitivity to unobserved variables is distinct from (though
related to) sensitivity to analytical choices of the investigator, which is more commonly found in
70
the applied literature; these include, for example, sensitivity to different estimators, the presence
of outliers, effect heterogeneity, or covariate selection (see, Blundell et al., 2001; Belzil and
Hansen, 2002; Jaeger and Parys, 2009 for examples applied to returns to education).
We suggest several reasons for this slow uptake. First, the traditional approach for sensitivity
analysis of instrumental variable estimates has focused on parameterizing violations of the IV
75
assumptions with a single parameter summarizing the overall bias in the association of the in-
strument with the outcome. While this parameterization may be well-suited when the bias is only
due to the direct effect of the instrument on the outcome (not through the treatment), it is not as
straightforward to use when reasoning about multiple side-effects or confounders of the instru-
ment, in which case that sensitivity parameter is a complicated composite of many sources of
80
bias (see Supplementary Material for a comparison of our proposal with traditional approaches).
Second, while users of IV methods are instructed to routinely report quantities to diagnose cer-
tain inferential problems such as “weak instruments” (e.g. the F-statistic, Stock and Yogo, 2002),
we lack sensitivity statistics that can quickly communicate how robust a study is to violations in
Omitted Variable Bias for Instrumental Variables
3
the form of omitted confounders or side-effects of the instrument. Additionally, it is often difﬁ-
85
cult to connect the formal results of a sensitivity analysis to a cogent argument about what types
of biases can be ruled out by expert knowledge.
In this paper, we develop an omitted variable bias (OVB) framework for assessing the sen-
sitivity of IV estimates that aims to address these challenges. Building on the Anderson-Rubin
approach (Anderson and Rubin, 1949) and on recent developments of OVB for ordinary least
90
squares (OLS) (Cinelli and Hazlett, 2020), we develop a simple suite of sensitivity analysis tools
for IV that: (i) naturally handles violations due to multiple side-effects and confounders, possibly
acting non-linearly; (ii) is well suited for routine reporting; and (iii) exploits expert knowledge to
bound sensitivity parameters. (Here we focus on the just-identiﬁed case of one treatment and one
instrument for two reasons. First, examining violations of identiﬁcation assumptions is already
95
challenging enough with a single instrument (Angrist and Pischke, 2009). Second, most applied
work falls into this category: for instance, Young (2022) ﬁnds that 80% of instrumental variable
regressions in the American Economic Review and 15 other journals of the American Economic
Association used a single instrument. Even in multiple-instrument studies, it is not uncommon
for researchers to report and give special focus to their best single instrument.)
100
Speciﬁcally, we introduce two main sensitivity statistics for instrumental variable estimates:
(i) the robustness value describes the minimum strength of association (in terms of partial R2)
that omitted variables (side-effects or confounders) need to have, both with the instrument and
with the outcome, in order to change the conclusions of the study; and (ii) the extreme robust-
ness value, which describes the minimal strength of association that omitted variables need to
105
have with the instrument alone in order to be problematic. Routine reporting of these quantities
provides a quick and simple way to improve the transparency and facilitate the assessment of
the credibility of IV studies. Next, we offer intuitive graphical tools for investigators to assess
how postulated confounding of any degree would alter hypothesis tests, as well as lower or up-
per limits of conﬁdence intervals. These tools can be supplemented with formal bounds on the
110
worst possible bias that side-effects or confounders could cause, under the assumption that the
maximum explanatory power of these omitted variables is no stronger than a chosen multiple of
the explanatory power of observed variables.
A ﬁnal contribution of this paper is the proposal of a novel bias-adjusted critical value that
accounts for a postulated degree of omitted variable bias. Notably, this correction on the critical
115
value does not depend on the observed data, and can be computed by simply postulating a hy-
pothetical partial R2 of the omitted variables with the dependent and independent variables of
the regression. Applied researchers can thus quickly and easily perform sensitivity analysis by
simply substituting traditional thresholds with bias-adjusted thresholds, when testing a particular
null hypothesis, or when constructing conﬁdence intervals. All proofs and details can be found
120
in the Supplementary Material. Open-source software for R implements the methods discussed
in this paper: https://github.com/carloscinelli/iv.sensemakr.
2.
BACKGROUND AND RUNNING EXAMPLE
2.1.
Ordinary least squares and the omitted variable bias problem
Many observational studies have established a positive and large association between educa-
125
tional achievement and earnings using regression analysis. Here we consider the work of Card
(1993), which employed a sample of n = 3, 010 individuals from the National Longitudinal Sur-
vey of Young Men.
Considering the following multiple linear regression Y = ˆτOLS,resD + X ˆβOLS,res + ˆεOLS,res,
where Y denotes Earnings and measures the log transformed hourly wages of the individual, D
130
4
CINELLI & HAZLETT
denotes Education and consists of an integer-valued variable indicating the completed years of
education of the individual, and the matrix X comprises race, experience, and a set of regional
factors, Card concluded that each additional year of schooling was associated with approximately
7.5% higher wages.
Educational achievement, however, is not randomly assigned; perhaps individuals who obtain
135
more education have higher wages for other reasons, such as family background, or higher levels
of some other unobserved characteristic such as Ability or Motivation. If data on these variables
were available, then further adjustment for such variables would capture the causal effect of ed-
ucational attainment on schooling, as in Y = ˆτOLSD + X ˆβOLS + U ˆγOLS + ˆεOLS, where U is a
set of variables that, along with X, eliminates confounding concerns (if the treatment effect is
140
heterogeneous, this may affect the causal interpretation of τOLS, see, e.g. Angrist and Pischke,
2009). Unfortunately, such detailed information on individuals is not available, and researchers
may not agree on which variables U are needed. Regression estimates that adjust for only a
partial list of characteristics (such as X) may suffer from omitted variable bias, likely overesti-
mating the true returns to schooling.
145
2.2.
Instrumental variables as a solution to the omitted variable bias problem
Instrumental variable methods offer an alternative route to estimate the causal effect of school-
ing on earnings without having data on the unobserved variables U. The key for such methods
to work is to ﬁnd a new variable (the instrument) that changes the incentives to educational
achievement, but is associated with earnings only through its effect on education. To that end,
150
Card (1993) proposed exploiting the role of geographic differences in college accessibility. In
particular, consider the variable Proximity, encoding an indicator of whether the individual grew
up in an area with a nearby accredited 4-year college, which we denote by Z. Students who
grow up far from the nearest college may face higher educational costs, discouraging them from
pursuing higher level studies. Next, and most importantly, Card (1993) argues that, conditional
155
on the set of observed variables X, whether one lives near a college is not itself confounded
with earnings, nor does proximity to college affect earnings apart from its effect on years of
education. If we believe such assumptions hold it is possible to recover a valid estimate of the
(weigthed average of local) average treatment effect(s) of Education on Earnings by simply tak-
ing the ratio of two OLS coefﬁcients, one measuring the effect of Proximity on Earnings, and
160
another measuring the effect of Proximity on Education, as in the two regression models
First Stage:
D = ˆθresZ + X ˆψres + ˆεd,res,
(1)
Reduced Form:
Y = ˆλresZ + X ˆβres + ˆεy,res.
(2)
Throughout the paper we refer to these equations as the ﬁrst stage (1) and the reduced form (2),
as these are now common usage (Angrist and Pischke, 2009; Imbens and Rubin, 2015; Andrews
165
et al., 2019). The coefﬁcient for Proximity (Z) on the ﬁrst-stage regression reveals that those
who grew up near a college indeed have higher educational attainment, having completed an
additional 0.32 years of education, on average. Likewise, the coefﬁcient for Proximity (Z) on
the reduced-form regression suggests that those who grew up near a college have 4.2% higher
earnings. The IV estimate is then given by the ratio, ˆτres := ˆλres/ˆθres ≈0.042/0.319 ≈0.132.
170
The value of ˆτres ≈0.132 suggests that, contrary to the OLS estimate of 7.5%, and perhaps sur-
prisingly, each additional year of schooling instead raises wages by much more—13.2%. (Con-
ditions that allow a causal interpretation of the traditional IV estimand are extensively discussed
elsewhere and will not be reviewed here, see Angrist et al. (1996); Angrist and Pischke (2009);
Swanson et al. (2018); Słoczy´nski (2020) and Blandhol et al. (2022). See also Section 6.)
175
Omitted Variable Bias for Instrumental Variables
5
The ratio ˆλres/ˆθres is sometimes called the indirect least squares estimator. Inference in this
framework is usually performed using the delta-method. A closely related approach is denoted
by two-stage least squares, in which one saves the predictions of the ﬁrst-stage regression, and
then regress the outcome on these ﬁtted values. By the Frisch-Waugh-Lovell (FWL) theorem
(Frisch and Waugh, 1933; Lovell, 1963) one can readily show that two-stage least squares and
180
indirect least squares yield numerically identical estimates and standard errors.
2.3.
Anderson-Rubin regression, Fieller’s theorem and weak instruments
Inference using the previous methods may prove unreliable when the ﬁrst-stage coefﬁcient is
too close to zero relative to the sampling variability of its estimator. This is known as the “weak
instrument” problem. The Anderson-Rubin regression (Anderson and Rubin, 1949) provides one
185
approach to constructing conﬁdence intervals with correct coverage, regardless of the strength of
the ﬁrst stage. Additionally, it also yields the uniformly most powerful unbiased test under this
setup (Moreira, 2009).
The approach starts by creating the random variable Yτ0 := Y −τ0D in which we subtract
from Y a putative causal effect of D, namely, τ0. If Z is a valid instrument, under the null
190
hypothesis H0 : τ = τ0, we should not see an association between Yτ0 and Z, conditional on X.
In other words, if we run the regression
Anderson-Rubin:
Yτ0 = ˆφτ0,resZ + X ˆβτ0,res + ˆετ0,res,
(3)
we should ﬁnd that ˆφτ0,res is equal to zero, but for sampling variation. To test the null hypothesis
H0 : φτ0,res = 0 in the Anderson-Rubin regression is thus equivalent to test the null hypothesis
195
H0 : τ = τ0. The 1 −α conﬁdence interval is constructed by collecting all values τ0 such that the
null hypothesis H0 : φτ0,res = 0 is not rejected at the chosen signiﬁcance level α. This approach
is numerically identical to Fieller’s theorem (Fieller, 1954). It is convenient to deﬁne the point
estimate ˆτAR,res as the value τ0 which makes ˆφτ0,res exactly equal to zero. By the FWL theorem,
we can easily show that ˆτAR,res is also numerically identical to the indirect least squares and
200
two-stage least squares estimates.
The literature on weak instruments is extensive (see, e.g., Nelson and Startz, 1990; Staiger and
Stock, 1994; Kleibergen, 2002; Moreira, 2003, 2009; Andrews et al., 2019), and users are rou-
tinely advised to report diagnostic measures (e.g. the F-statistic of the ﬁrst stage). It is important
to note, however, that sensitivity to unobserved confounders or side-effects is distinct from issues
205
posed by weak instruments. In particular, the latter depends on sample size, whereas the former
does not. Thus, instruments deemed “strong” by conventional statistics may still be fragile in the
face of unobserved variables—see Remark 4.
2.4.
The instrumental variable estimate may still suffer from omitted variable bias
The previous instrumental variable estimate relies on the assumption that, conditional on X,
210
Proximity and Earnings are unconfounded, and the effect of Proximity on Earnings must go en-
tirely through Education. As is often the case, neither assumption is easy to defend. First, the
same factors that might confound the relationship between Education and Earnings could sim-
ilarly confound the relationship of Proximity and Earnings (e.g. family wealth or connections).
Second, as argued in Card (1993), the presence of a college nearby may be associated with high
215
school quality, which in turn also affects earnings. Finally, other geographic confounders can
make some localities likely to both have colleges nearby and lead to higher earnings. These are
only coarsely conditioned on by the observed regional indicators, and residual biases may still
remain.
6
CINELLI & HAZLETT
Therefore, instead of adjusting for X only, as in the previous regressions, we should have
220
adjusted for both the observed covariates X and unobserved covariates W as in
First Stage:
D = ˆθZ + X ˆψ + W ˆδ + ˆεd,
(4)
Reduced Form:
Y = ˆλZ + X ˆβ + W ˆγ + ˆεy,
(5)
Anderson-Rubin:
Yτ0 = ˆφτ0Z + X ˆβτ0 + W ˆγτ0 + ˆετ0,
(6)
where W stands for all unobserved factors necessary to make Proximity a valid instrument for
225
the effect of Education on Earnings. See Supplementary Material for canonical causal diagrams
illustrating settings in which {X, W } renders Z a valid instrument for the effect of D and Y ;
equivalent assumptions can be articulated in the potential outcomes framework (Angrist et al.,
1996; Pearl, 2009; Swanson et al., 2018).
2.5.
Problem statement
230
Our task is to characterize how instrumental variable estimates, as given by the OLS regres-
sions in (4)-(6), would have changed due to the inclusion of omitted variables W . As such, we
should be able to leverage sensitivity analysis tools for OLS to examine the sensitivity of IV. The
next section thus extends and reﬁnes several results for the sensitivity analysis of arbitrary OLS
estimates. These results are not only useful on their own right, but, importantly, they will later
235
be applied to the development of a suite sensitivity analysis tools for instrumental variables in
Section 4. Finally, throughout the paper, we impose the following regularity condition.
Assumption 1 (Full Rank). The matrices of independent variables in (4)-(6) have full rank.
This ensures all relevant quantities discussed below are ﬁnite.
3.
EXTENSIONS TO THE OMITTED VARIABLE BIAS FRAMEWORK FOR OLS
240
3.1.
Preliminaries
We start by brieﬂy establishing key ideas, formulae, and notation from prior work (Cinelli and
Hazlett, 2020). For concreteness, in this section we discuss the omitted variable bias framework
in the context of the reduced-form regression. Readers should keep in mind, however, that all
results presented here hold for arbitrary OLS estimates—including, but not limited to, the ﬁrst
245
stage and the Anderson-Rubin regression. The logical implications of the sensitivity of these
auxiliary regressions for the sensitivity of IV itself are deferred to Section 4.
Consider the regression coefﬁcient estimate ˆλ and the classical (i.e, homoskedastic) standard
error estimate bse(ˆλ) of Equation (5), namely, the regression of the outcome Y on the instrument
Z, adjusting for a set of observed covariates X and (for now) a single unobserved covariate W
250
(we generalize to multivariate W below). Here Y , Z and W are (n × 1) vectors, X is an (n × p)
matrix (including a constant), with n observations; ˆλ, ˆβ and ˆγ are the regression coefﬁcient esti-
mates and ˆεy the corresponding residuals. As W is unobserved, the investigator instead estimates
the restricted model of Equation (2) where ˆλres and ˆβres are the coefﬁcients adjusting for Z and
X alone, and ˆεy,res the corresponding residuals. The omitted variable bias framework seeks to
255
answer the following question: how do the estimates from the restricted model compare with the
estimates from the full model?
Let R2
Y ∼W|Z,X denote the (sample) partial R2 of W with Y , after controlling for Z and X,
and let R2
Z∼W|X denote the partial R2 of W with Z after adjusting for X. It is also useful to
Omitted Variable Bias for Instrumental Variables
7
deﬁne Cohen’s partial f2, e.g, f2
Z∼W|X :=
R2
Z∼W |X
1−R2
Z∼W |X which will appear frequently through-
260
out derivations. Given the point estimate and (estimated) standard error of the restricted model
actually run, ˆλres and bse(ˆλres), these two R2 values are sufﬁcient to recover ˆλ and bse(ˆλ).
THEOREM 1 (OVB IN THE PARTIAL R2 PARAMETERIZATION). Under Assumption 1, the
absolute difference between the restricted and full OLS estimates is given by,
|ˆλres −ˆλ| =
q
R2
Y ∼W|Z,Xf2
Z∼W|X
|
{z
}
BF
×sd(Y ⊥X,Z)
sd(Z⊥X) ;
(7)
265
moreover, the (classical) standard error of the full OLS estimate is given by
bse(ˆλ) =
v
u
u
t1 −R2
Y ∼W|Z,X
1 −R2
Z∼W|X
|
{z
}
SEF
×sd(Y ⊥X,Z)
sd(Z⊥X) ×
r
1
df −1,
(8)
where sd(Y ⊥X,Z) is the (sample) residual standard deviation of Y after removing the part lin-
early explained by {X, Z}, sd(Z⊥X) is the (sample) residual standard deviation of Z after
removing the part linearly explained by X, and df = n −p −1 is the residual degrees of free-
270
dom from the restricted model (2). To aid interpretation, we call the term BF in (7) the “bias
factor” of W, and the term SEF in (8) the “standard error factor” of W.
For simplicity of exposition, throughout the text we usually refer to a single omitted vari-
able W. These results, however, can be used for performing sensitivity analyses considering
multiple omitted variables W = [W1, W2, . . . , Wl], and thus also non-linearities and functional
275
form misspeciﬁcation of observed variables. In such cases, barring an adjustment in the degrees
of freedom, the equations are conservative, and reveal the maximum bias a multivariate W with
such pair of partial R2 values could cause (Cinelli and Hazlett, 2020, Sec. 4.5).
Note Theorem 1 is stated in terms of sample estimates. All results presented in this paper are of
this type: they are exact algebraic results of how traditional OLS coefﬁcients and standard error
280
estimates change due to the inclusion of omitted variables. Conditions under which traditional
estimates yield valid inferences are well-known and thus omitted.
3.2.
Bias-adjusted critical values
We now introduce a novel correction to traditional critical values that researchers can use to
account for omitted variable bias. Let t∗
α,df −1 > 0 denote the (absolute value of) the critical value
285
for a standard t-test with signiﬁcance level α and df −1 degrees of freedom. Now let LL1−α(λ)
be the lower limit and UL1−α(λ) be the upper limit of a 1 −α conﬁdence interval for λ in the
full model, i.e.,
LL1−α(λ) := ˆλ −t∗
α,df −1 × bse(ˆλ),
UL1−α(λ) := ˆλ + t∗
α,df −1 × bse(ˆλ).
(9)
Considering the worst-case direction of the bias that further reduces the lower limit (or increases
290
the upper limit) in (9), Equations (7) and (8) of Theorem 1 imply that both quantities can be
written as a function of the restricted estimates and a new multiplier.
8
CINELLI & HAZLETT
THEOREM 2 (BIAS ADJUSTED CRITICAL VALUE). Under Assumption 1, for given R2 =
{R2
Y ∼W|Z,X, R2
Z∼W|X}, and α, consider the direction of the bias that reduces LL1−α(λ). Then
LL1−α(λ) = ˆλres −t†
α,df −1,R2 × bse(ˆλres).
(10)
295
Conversely, considering the direction of the bias that increases UL1−α(λ), we have
UL1−α(λ) = ˆλres + t†
α,df −1,R2 × bse(ˆλres).
(11)
Here t†
α,df −1,R2 denotes the bias-adjusted critical value
t†
α,df −1,R2 := SEF
p
df /(df −1) × t∗
α,df −1 + BF
√
df,
(12)
where BF and SEF are the bias and standard error factors of Theorem 1.
300
As the subscript R2 = {R2
Y ∼W|Z,X, R2
Z∼W|X} conveys, t†
α,df −1,R2 depends on both sensitivity
parameters. Notably, this correction does not depend on the observed data, but for the degrees
of freedom. In other words, the bias correction is a function of the strength of unobserved con-
founding and the sample size alone. This allows one to quickly assess the robustness of reported
ﬁndings to omitted variables of any postulated strength R2, by simply comparing the reported
305
t-statistic with the desired adjusted critical value, even without access to the original data.
Example 1. It is instructive to consider the case in which the omitted variable W has equal
strength of association with Y and Z, i.e, R2
Y ∼W|Z,X = R2
Z∼W|X = R2. We then have that
SEF = 1 and BF = R2/
√
1 −R2 resulting in a very simple correction formula,
t†
α,df −1,R2 ≈t∗
α,df −1 +
R2
√
1 −R2
√
df,
(13)
310
where we employ the approximation
p
df/(df −1) ≈1. Table 1 shows the adjusted critical val-
ues for this case, considering different strengths of the omitted variable and various sample sizes.
R2
Degrees of Freedom (sample size)
100
1,000
10,000
100,000
1,000,000
0.00
1.98
1.96
1.96
1.96
1.96
0.01
2.08
2.28
2.97
5.14
12.01
0.02
2.19
2.60
3.98
8.35
22.16
0.03
2.29
2.92
5.01
11.59
32.42
0.04
2.39
3.25
6.04
14.87
42.78
0.05
2.50
3.58
7.09
18.18
53.26
Table 1: Bias-adjusted critical values, t†
α,df −1,R2,R2, for different strengths of the omitted vari-
able W (with R2
Y ∼W|Z,X = R2
Z∼W|X = R2) and various sample sizes; α = 5%.
Tests using these new critical values account both for sampling uncertainty and residual biases
with the postulated strength. Note t†
α,df −1,R2 increases the larger the sample size. This behaviour
is simply a consequence of the well-known, but often overlooked fact that in large samples any
315
signal will eventually be detected, even if it is spurious. Thus, as the sample size grows, a higher
threshold is needed in order to protect inferences against systematic biases.
Omitted Variable Bias for Instrumental Variables
9
We note Table 1 picks R2
Y ∼W|Z,X = R2
Z∼W|X = R2 for illustrative purposes only. Re-
searchers can construct bias-adjusted critical values for any arbitrary pair of R2 values—see, e.g,
Supplementary Material for 2 × 2 tables of t†
α,df −1,R2 where both R2
Y ∼W|Z,X and R2
Z∼W|X are
320
varied simultaneously.
Remark 1. Sensitivity analysis cannot reveal the strength of confounding present, only the
strength of confounding required to alter a research conclusion. For instance, Table 1 reveals that
in a study with 1 million observations, one needs a t-value of at least 12 in order to guarantee
that the results are robust to latent variables that explain 1% of the residual variation both of the
325
dependent and independent variables. The table also tells us that any study with a t-value less
than 12 is vulnerable to such biases. The table does not tell us whether latent variables with such
strength do exist in any particular study—this needs to be adjudicated using expert knowledge.
Note, however, that knowing what one needs to know is useful, and represents an improvement
over conventional analysis, which assumes R2 = 0. See Section 6 for additional discussion.
330
3.3.
Compatible inferences given bounds on partial R2
Given hypothetical values for R2
Y ∼W|Z,X and R2
Z∼W|X, the previous results allow us to de-
termine exactly how the inclusion of W with such strength would change inference regarding
the parameter of interest. Often, however, the analyst does not know the exact strength of omit-
ted variables, and wishes to investigate the worst possible inferences that could be induced by
335
a W with bounded strength, for instance, R2
Y ∼W|Z,X ≤R2 max
Y ∼W|Z,X and R2
Z∼W|X ≤R2 max
Z∼W|X.
Writing t†
α,df −1,R2 as a function of the sensitivity parameters R2
Y ∼W|Z,X and R2
Z∼W|X, we then
solve the maximization problem,
max
R2
Y ∼W |Z,X,R2
Z∼W |X
t†
α,df −1,R2
s.t.
R2
Y ∼W|Z,X ≤R2 max
Y ∼W|Z,X, R2
Z∼W|X ≤R2 max
Z∼W|X. (14)
Denoting the solution to the optimization problem in expression (14) as t† max
α,df −1,R2, we obtain
340
the maximum bias-adjusted critical value.
THEOREM 3 (MAXIMUM BIAS-ADJUSTED CRITICAL VALUE). Fix
α,
R2 max
Y ∼W|Z,X
and
R2 max
Z∼W|X < 1 in the optimization problem (14). Then,
t† max
α,df −1,R2 = t†
α,df −1,R2∗,
with
R2∗= {R2 max
Y ∼W|Z,X,
R2 max
Z∼W|X}
if
R2 max
Z∼W|X ≥f∗2
α,df−1f2 max
Y ∼W|Z,X,
and
345
R2∗
=
{R2 max
Z∼W|X/(f∗2
α,df−1 + R2 max
Z∼W|X),
R2 max
Z∼W|X} otherwise, where here we deﬁne
f∗
α,df −1 := t∗
α,df −1/
√
df −1.
Once in possession of t† max
α,df −1,R2, the most extreme possible lower and upper limits of conﬁ-
dence intervals after adjusting for W are then given by
LLmax
1−α,R2(λ) = ˆλres −t† max
α,df −1,R2 × bse(ˆλres),
ULmax
1−α,R2 = ˆλres + t† max
α,df −1,R2 × bse(ˆλres).
350
The interval composed of such limits,
CImax
1−α,R2(λ) :=
h
LLmax
1−α,R2(λ),
ULmax
1−α,R2(λ)
i
,
(15)
retrieves the union of all conﬁdence intervals for λ that are compatible with an omitted variable
with such strengths.
10
CINELLI & HAZLETT
Widespread adoption of sensitivity analysis beneﬁts from simple and interpretable statistics
355
that quickly convey the overall robustness of an estimate. To that end, Cinelli and Hazlett (2020)
proposed two sensitivity statistics for routine reporting: (i) the partial R2 of Z with Y , R2
Y ∼Z|X;
and, (ii) the robustness value (RV). In what follows, we generalize the notion of a partial R2 as a
measure of robustness to extreme scenarios, by introducing the extreme robustness value (XRV),
for which the partial R2 is a special case. We also recast these sensitivity statistics as a solution to
360
an “inverse” question regarding the interval CImax
1−α,R2(λ). This framework facilitates extending
these metrics to other contexts, in particular to the IV setting in Section 4.
3.4.
The extreme robustness value
Our ﬁrst inverse question is: what is the bare minimum strength of association of the omitted
variable W with Z that could bring its estimated coefﬁcient to a region where it is no longer
365
statistically different than zero (or another threshold of interest)? To answer this question, we
can see CImax
1−α,R2(λ) as a function of the bound R2 max
Z∼W|X alone, obtained from maximizing the
adjusted critical value in expression (14) where: (i) the parameter R2
Y ∼W|Z,X is left completely
unconstrained (i.e, R2
Y ∼W|Z,X ≤1); and, (ii) the parameter R2
Z∼W|X is bounded by XRV (i.e,
R2 max
Z∼W|X ≤XRV). The Extreme Robustness Value XRVq∗,α(λ) is deﬁned as the greatest lower
370
bound XRV such that the null hypothesis that a change of (100 × q∗)% of the original estimate,
H0 : λ = (1 −q∗)ˆλres, is not rejected at the α level,
XRVq∗,α(λ) := inf
n
XRV; (1 −q∗)ˆλres ∈CImax
1−α,1,XRV(λ)
o
.
(16)
The solution to this problem gives the following result.
THEOREM 4 (EXTREME ROBUSTNESS VALUE—OLS). Under Assumption 1, for given q∗
375
and α, the extreme robustness value equals
XRVq∗,α(λ) =





0,
if fq∗(λ) ≤f∗
α,df−1,
f2
q∗(λ) −f∗2
α,df−1
1 + f2
q∗(λ)
, otherwise,
where fq∗(λ) := q∗|fY ∼Z|X|, and f∗
α,df −1 := t∗
α,df −1/
√
df −1.
Remark 2. Beyond its procedural interpretation, XRVq∗,α(λ) can also be interpreted as an
“adjusted partial R2” of Z with Y . To see why, consider the case of the minimal strength to
380
bring the point estimate (α = 1) to exactly zero (q∗= 1). We then have that f∗
α=1,df −1 = 0
and f2
q∗=1(λ) = f2
Y ∼Z|X, resulting in XRVq∗=1,α=1(λ) =
f2
Y ∼Z|X
1+f2
Y ∼Z|X = R2
Y ∼Z|X. For the gen-
eral case, we simply perform two adjustments that dampens the “raw” partial R2 of Z
with Y . First we adjust it by the proportion of reduction deemed to be problematic q∗through
fq∗= q∗|fY ∼Z|X|; next, we subtract the threshold for which statistical signiﬁcance is lost.
385
3.5.
The robustness value
An alternative measure of robustness of the OLS estimate is to consider the minimal strength
of association that the omitted variable needs to have, both with Z and Y , so that a 1 −α conﬁ-
dence interval for λ will include a change of (100 × q∗)% of the current restricted estimate. Write
CImax
1−α,R2(λ) as a function of both bounds varying simultaneously, CImax
1−α,RV,RV(λ), by maximiz-
390
ing the adjusted critical value with bounds given by R2
Y ∼W|Z,X ≤RV and R2
Z∼W|X ≤RV.
Omitted Variable Bias for Instrumental Variables
11
The Robustness Value RVq∗,α(λ) for not rejecting the null hypothesis that H0 : λ = (1 −q∗)ˆλres,
at the signiﬁcance level α, is deﬁned as
RVq∗,α(λ) := inf
n
RV; (1 −q∗)ˆλres ∈CImax
1−α,RV,RV(λ)
o
.
(17)
The RV of OLS estimates has then the following characterization.
395
THEOREM 5 (ROBUSTNESS VALUE—OLS). Under Assumption 1, for given q∗and α, the
robustness value equals
RVq∗,α(λ) =







0,
if fq∗(λ) ≤f∗
α,df−1,
1
2
q
f4
q∗,α(λ) + 4f2
q∗,α(λ) −f2
q∗,α(λ)

, if f∗
α,df−1 < fq∗(λ) < f∗−1
α,df−1,
XRVq∗,α(λ),
otherwise,
where fq∗,α(λ) := q∗|fY ∼Z|X| −f∗
α,df −1, and f∗
α,df −1 := t∗
α,df −1/
√
df −1.
The ﬁrst case occurs when the conﬁdence interval already includes (1 −q∗)ˆλres or the mere
400
change of one degree of freedom achieves this. In the second case, both associations of W reach
the bound (here, when the f statistic is very large, it may be numerically convenient to use the
equivalent expression 2/

1 +
q
1 + 4/f2
q∗,α(λ)

which avoids catastrophic cancellations). The
last case is an interior point solution—when the constraint on the partial R2 with the outcome is
not binding, the RV reduces to the XRV.
405
3.6.
Bounding the plausible strength of omitted variables
One ﬁnal result is required before turning to the sensitivity of instrumental variables. Let Xj
be a speciﬁc covariate of the set X, and deﬁne
kZ :=
R2
Z∼W|X−j
R2
Z∼Xj|X−j
,
kY :=
R2
Y ∼W|Z,X−j
R2
Y ∼Xj|ZX−j
,
(18)
where X−j represents the vector of covariates X excluding Xj. These new parameters, kZ and
410
kY , stand for how much “stronger” W is relatively to the observed covariate Xj in terms of
residual variation explained of Z and Y . Our goal in this section is to re-express (or bound)
the sensitivity parameters R2
Z∼W|X and R2
Y ∼W|Z,X in terms of the relative strength parameters
kZ and kY . Cinelli and Hazlett (2020) derived bounds considering the part of W not linearly
explained by X. These are particularly useful when contemplating Xj and W both confounders
415
of Z (violations of the ignorability of the instrument). In the IV setting, however, W and Xj may
be side-effects of Z, instead of causes of Z. In such cases, it may be more natural to reason about
the orthogonality of X and W after conditioning on Z. Therefore, here we additionally provide
bounds under the condition R2
W∼Xj|Z,X−j = 0.
THEOREM 6 (RELATIVE BOUNDS ON THE STRENGTH OF W ). Under Assumption 1, for
420
ﬁxed kZ and kY as deﬁned in (18), if R2
W∼Xj|Z,X−j = 0 then
R2
Z∼W|X ≤η2f2
Z∼Xj|X−j,
R2
Y ∼W|Z,X = kY f2
Y ∼Xj|Z,X−j,
(19)
where, η =


√kZ+
R3
Z∼Xj|X−j

q
1−kZR4
Z∼Xj|X−j

.
12
CINELLI & HAZLETT
These results allow investigators to leverage knowledge of relative importance of variables
(Kruskal and Majors, 1989) when making plausibility judgments regarding sensitivity param-
425
eters, by setting R2 max
Y ∼W|Z,X = kY f2
Y ∼Xj|Z,X−j, R2 max
Z∼W|X = ηf2
Z∼Xj|X−j in CImax
1−α,R2(λ).
4.
AN OMITTED VARIABLE BIAS FRAMEWORK FOR THE SENSITIVITY OF IV
4.1.
A suite of sensitivity analysis tools for instrumental variables
We are now ready to develop a suite of sensitivity analysis tools for instrumental variable
regression. In what follows, we ﬁrst show how separate sensitivity analysis of the reduced form
430
and ﬁrst stage is sufﬁcient to draw many valuable conclusions regarding the sensitivity of the
instrumental variable estimate. We then construct a complete omitted variable bias framework
for sensitivity analysis of instrumental variables within the Anderson-Rubin approach.
4.2.
What can be learned from the reduced form and ﬁrst stage?
The critical examination of the ﬁrst stage and the reduced form plays an important role for
435
supporting the causal story behind a particular instrumental variable (Angrist and Krueger, 2001;
Angrist and Pischke, 2009; Imbens, 2014). While investigating these separate regressions, all
sensitivity analysis results discussed in the previous section can be readily deployed. Fortunately,
such sensitivity analyses also answer many pivotal questions regarding the IV estimate itself.
First, if the investigator is interested in assessing the strength of confounders or side-effects
440
needed to bring the effect estimate to zero, or to not reject the null hypothesis of zero effect, the
results of the sensitivity analysis of the reduced form is all that is needed. Second, the sensitivity
of the ﬁrst stage (to confounding that could change its sign) reveals whether the IV estimate
could be arbitrarily large in either direction (in the context of randomization inference, similar
observations have been noted by Imbens and Rosenbaum, 2005; Small and Rosenbaum, 2008;
445
Keele et al., 2017). We elaborate on these claims below.
Starting with the point estimate, all estimators under consideration here equal to the ratio of
the reduced-form and the ﬁrst-stage regression coefﬁcients, ˆτ := ˆλ/ˆθ. This simple algebraic fact
leads to two immediate and practically important conclusions regarding the sensitivity of ˆτ from
the sensitivity of ˆλ and ˆθ alone. First, residual biases can bring the IV point estimate to zero
450
if and only if they can bring the reduced-form point estimate to zero. Therefore, if sensitivity
analysis of the reduced form reveals that omitted variables are not strong enough to explain away
ˆλ, then they also cannot explain away ˆτ. Or, more worrisome, if analysis reveals that it takes
weak confounding or side-effects to explain away ˆλ, the same holds for ˆτ. Second, if we cannot
rule out confounders or side-effects able to change the sign of the ﬁrst stage, we cannot rule out
455
that ˆτ could be arbitrarily large in either direction. This can be immediately seen by letting ˆθ
approach zero on either side of the limit. Thus, whenever we are interested in biases as large or
larger than a certain amount, the robustness of the ﬁrst stage to the zero null puts an upper bound
on the robustness of the IV point estimate.
Moving to inferential concerns, the Anderson-Rubin test for the null hypothesis H0 : τ = τ0 is
460
based on the test of H0 : φτ0 = 0. By the FWL theorem, the point estimate and (estimated) stan-
dard error for ˆφτ0 can be expressed in terms of the ﬁrst-stage and reduced-form estimates, namely,
ˆφτ0 = ˆλ −τ0ˆθ and, bse(ˆφτ0) =
q
c
var(ˆλ) + τ 2
0 c
var(ˆθ) −2τ0d
cov(ˆλ, ˆθ). Testing H0 : φτ0 = 0 re-
quires comparing the t-value for ˆφτ0 with a critical threshold t∗
α,df −1, and the null hypothesis is
not rejected if |tˆφτ0| ≤t∗
α,df −1. Squaring and rearranging terms we obtain the quadratic inequal-
465
Omitted Variable Bias for Instrumental Variables
13
ity,
(ˆθ2 −c
var(ˆθ)t∗2
α,df −1)
|
{z
}
a
τ 2
0 + 2(d
cov(ˆλ, ˆθ)t∗2
α,df −1 −ˆλˆθ)
|
{z
}
b
τ0 + (ˆλ2 −c
var(ˆλ)t∗2
α,df −1)
|
{z
}
c
≤0.
(20)
When considering the null hypothesis H0 : τ0 = 0, only the term c remains, and c is less or
equal to zero if and only if one cannot reject the null hypothesis H0 : λ = 0 in the reduced-form
regression. Also note that arbitrarily large values for τ0 will satisfy the inequality in Equation (20)
470
if, and only if, a < 0, meaning that we cannot reject the null hypothesis H0 : θ = 0 in the ﬁrst-
stage regression. Within the Anderson-Rubin framework, we thus reach analogous conclusions
regarding hypothesis testing as those regarding the point estimate: (i) when interest lies in the
zero null hypothesis, the sensitivity of the reduced form is exactly the sensitivity of the IV—no
other analyses are needed; and, (ii) if one is interested in biases of a certain amount, or larger,
475
then the sensitivity of the ﬁrst stage to the zero null hypothesis needs also to be assessed.
4.3.
Sensitivity analysis for a speciﬁc null hypothesis
Within the Anderson-Rubin approach, a sensitivity analysis for the null hypothesis
H0 : τ = τ0, for any arbitrary value τ0 can be performed as follows.
Algorithm 1. Sensitivity analysis for a speciﬁc null hypothesis.
480
(1) Set H0 : τ = τ0, α, and R2 = {R2
Z∼W|X, R2
Yτ0∼W|Z,X};
(2) Construct Yτ0 = Y −τ0D;
(3) Fit the Anderson-Rubin regression Yτ0 = ˆφres,τ0Z + X ˆβres,τ0 + ˆετ0,res;
(4) Compare the t-value for testing H0 : φres,τ0 = 0 against the critical value t† max
α,df −1,R2;
(5) Compute XRVq∗=1,α(φτ0) and RVq∗=1,α(φτ0);
(6) Report the results of (4) and (5).
The
procedure
above
tells
us
how
omitted
variables
no
worse
than
R2 =
{R2
Z∼W|X, R2
Yτ0∼W|Z,X} would alter inferences regarding the null H0 : τ = τ0, as well
as the minimal strength of R2 required to not reject the null H0 : τ = τ0, as given by the
RV or XRV. Note the bounds on R2 can be chosen to reﬂect the assumption that the omitted
variables are no stronger than certain observed covariates, as per Section 3.6.
485
4.4.
Compatible inferences for IV given bounds on partial R2
More broadly, analysts can recover the set of inferences compatible with plausibility judg-
ments on the maximum strength of W. For a critical threshold t∗
α,df −1, the conﬁdence interval
for τ in the Anderson-Rubin framework is given by CI1−α(τ) = {τ0; t2
φτ0 ≤t∗2
α,df −1}. Thus,
consider bounds on sensitivity parameters R2
Yτ0∼W|Z,X ≤R2 max
Y0∼W|Z,X (which should be judged
490
to hold regardless of the value of τ0) and R2
Z∼W|X ≤R2 max
Z∼W|X. Let t† max
α,df −1,R2 denote the max-
imum bias-adjusted critical value under the posited bounds on the strength of W. The set of
compatible inferences for the IV estimate CImax
1−α,R2(τ) is then deﬁned as
CImax
1−α,R2(τ) :=

τ0; t2
ˆφres,τ0 ≤

t† max
α,df −1,R2
2
.
(21)
This interval can be found analytically using the same inequality as in Equation (20), but now
495
with the parameters of the restricted regression actually run, and t∗
α,df −1 replaced by t† max
α,df −1,R2.
Note that users can easily obtain CImax
1−α,R2(τ) with any software that computes Anderson-Rubin
14
CINELLI & HAZLETT
or Fieller’s conﬁdence intervals by simply providing the modiﬁed critical threshold t† max
α,df −1,R2.
Armed with the notion of a set of compatible inferences for IV, CImax
1−α,R2(τ), we are now able to
formally deﬁne and derive (extreme) robustness values for instrumental variable estimates.
500
4.5.
Extreme robustness values for IV
The extreme robustness value XRVq∗,α(τ) for the instrumental variable estimate is deﬁned as
the minimum strength of association of omitted variables with the instrument so that we cannot
reject a reduction of (100 × q∗)% of the original estimate; that is,
XRVq∗,α(τ) := inf

XRV; (1 −q∗)ˆτres ∈CImax
1−α,1,XRV(τ)
	
.
(22)
505
The XRVq∗,α(τ) computes the minimal strength of W required to not reject a particular null
hypothesis of interest. However, we might be interested, instead, in asking about the minimal
strength of omitted variables to not reject a speciﬁc value or worse. When conﬁdence intervals
are connected, such as the case of standard OLS, the two notions coincide. But in the Anderson-
Rubin case, conﬁdence intervals can sometimes consist of disjoint intervals. Therefore, let the
510
upper and lower limits of CImax
1−α,R2(τ) be LLmax
1−α,R2(τ) and ULmax
1−α,R2(τ) respectively. The
extreme robustness value XRV≥q∗,α(τ) for the IV estimate is deﬁned as the minimum strength
of association that confounders or side-effects need to have with the instrument so that we cannot
reject a change of (100 × q∗)% or worse of the original estimate,
XRV≥q∗,α(τ) := inf

XRV; (1 −q∗)ˆτres ∈

LLmax
1−α,1,XRV(τ),
ULmax
1−α,1,XRV(τ)
	
.
(23)
515
Both quantities can be obtained via the Anderson-Rubin and ﬁrst-stage regressions as follows.
THEOREM 7 (EXTREME ROBUSTNESS VALUE—IV). Under Assumption 1, for given q∗
and α, the extreme robustness values for IV are given by
XRVq∗,α(τ) = XRV1,α(φτ ∗),
and,
(24)
XRV≥q∗,α(τ) = min{XRV1,α(φτ ∗),
XRV1,α(θ)},
(25)
520
where τ ∗= (1 −q∗)ˆτres.
Remark 3. Theorem 7 corroborates the discussion of Section 4.2. The robustness of IV esti-
mates against biases as large or larger than a certain amount is bounded by the robustness of the
ﬁrst stage assessed at the zero null. Moreover, for the special case of the null hypothesis of zero
effect, H0 : τ = 0, we obtain XRV≥1,α(τ) = min{XRV1,α(λ),
XRV1,α(θ)}, that is, the XRV
525
of the IV estimate, against biases that bring it to zero or worse, is equal to the minimum of the
XRV of the ﬁrst stage and the reduced form, both evaluated at the zero null (q∗= 1).
Remark 4. Note that the XRV of the ﬁrst stage XRV1,α(θ) can be arbitrarily different from tra-
ditional metrics of instrument strength. For a simple numerical example, consider df = 100, 000
and suppose the ﬁrst stage F statistic is F = t2 ≈100, which could be considered a strong in-
530
strument for statistical inference purposes. In this case, we still have XRV1,α(θ) ≈0.001.
4.6.
Robustness values for IV
The deﬁnitions of the robustness value for instrumental variables follow the same logic dis-
cussed above, but now considering both bounds on CImax
1−α,R2(τ) varying simultaneously. That
is, the RV for not rejecting a bias of exactly q∗is deﬁned as
535
RVq∗,α(τ) := inf

RV; (1 −q∗)ˆτres ∈CImax
1−α,RV,RV(τ)
	
,
(26)
Omitted Variable Bias for Instrumental Variables
15
and the RV for not rejecting the null of a reduction of (100 × q∗)% or worse is deﬁned as,
RV≥q∗,α(τ) := inf

RV; (1 −q∗)ˆτres ∈

LLmax
1−α,RV,RV(τ),
ULmax
1−α,RV,RV(τ)
	
.
(27)
We then have analogous results for robustness values, and similar discussion applies.
THEOREM 8 (ROBUSTNESS VALUE—IV). Under Assumption 1, for given q∗and α, the ro-
540
bustness values for IV are given by
RVq∗,α(τ) = RV1,α(φτ ∗),
and,
(28)
RV≥q∗,α(τ) = min{RV1,α(φτ ∗),
RV1,α(θ)},
(29)
where τ ∗= (1 −q∗)ˆτres.
4.7.
Conservative bounds on the strength of omitted variables
545
When testing a speciﬁc null hypothesis H0 : τ = τ0 in the Anderson-Rubin regres-
sion,
we
have
kZ
as
in
Section
3.6,
and
instead
of
kY
we
now
have
kYτ0 :=
R2
Yτ0∼W|Z,X−j/R2
Yτ0∼Xj|ZX−j. The plausibility judgment one is making here is thus under the
null H0 : τ = τ0. Since the judgment is made under a speciﬁc null, the bounds will be differ-
ent when testing different hypotheses. Therefore, it is useful to compute bounds under a slightly
550
more conservative assumption. We can posit that the omitted variables are no stronger than (a
multiple of) the maximum explanatory power of an observed covariate, regardless of the value of
τ0, i.e, kmax
Yτ0
:=
maxτ0 R2
Yτ0 ∼W |Z,X−j
maxτ0 R2
Yτ0 ∼Xj|ZX−j
. This has the useful property of providing a unique bound
for any null hypothesis, and can be used to place bounds on the sensitivity contours of the lower
and upper limit of the Anderson-Rubin conﬁdence intervals, as we show next.
555
5.
USING THE OMITTED VARIABLE BIAS FRAMEWORK FOR THE SENSITIVITY OF IV
We return to our running example of Section 2 and show how the tools developed here can
be deployed to assess the robustness of the original ﬁndings to violations of the IV assumptions.
Throughout, we focus the discussion on violations of the ignorability of the instrument due to
confounders, as this is the main threat of the study under investigation. Readers should keep in
560
mind, however, that mathematically all analyses performed here can be equally interpreted as
assessing violations of the exclusion restriction (or both).
Table 2 shows our proposed minimal sensitivity reporting for IV estimates. It starts by replicat-
ing the usual statistics, such as the point estimate (0.132), as well as the lower and upper limits
of the Anderson-Rubin conﬁdence interval [0.025, 0.285], and the t-value against the null hy-
565
pothesis of zero effect (2.33). Next, we propose researchers report the extreme robustness value
(XRV≥q∗,α = 0.05%) and the robustness value (RV≥q∗,α = 0.67%) required to bring the lower
limit of the conﬁdence interval to or beyond zero (or another meaningful threshold), at the 5%
signiﬁcance level. We also show these same statistics for the ﬁrst stage and reduced form. As
derived in Theorems 7 and 8, the (extreme) robustness value of the IV estimate required to bring
570
the lower limit of the conﬁdence interval to zero or below is the minimum of the (extreme) ro-
bustness value of the reduced form and the (extreme) robustness value of the ﬁrst stage evaluated
at the zero null. In our running example, the reduced form is more fragile, thus the sensitivity of
the IV hinges critically on the sensitivity of the reduced form (see Supplementary Material for
separate detailed analyses of the robustness of the reduced form and ﬁrst stage).
575
The RV reveals that confounders explaining 0.67% of the residual variation both of prox-
imity and of (log) Earnings are already sufﬁcient to make the instrumental variable estimate
16
CINELLI & HAZLETT
Model
Param.
Estimate
LL1−α
UL1−α
t-value
XRV≥q∗,α
RV≥q∗,α
Inst. Variable
τ
0.132
0.025
0.285
2.33
0.05%
0.67%
First Stage
θ
0.320
0.148
0.492
3.64
0.31%
3.02%
Reduced Form
λ
0.042
0.007
0.078
2.33
0.05%
0.67%
Bound (1x SMSA): R2
Y ∼W |Z,X = 2%, R2
W ∼Z|X = 0.6%, t† max
α,df −1,R2 = 2.55.
Note: df = 2994,
q∗= 1,
α = 0.05.
Table 2: Minimal sensitivity reporting.
statistically insigniﬁcant. Further, the XRV shows that, if we are not willing to impose con-
straints on the partial R2 of confounders with the outcome, they need only explain 0.05% of
the residual variation of the instrument to be problematic. To aid users in making plausibility
580
judgments, the note of the table provides bounds on the maximum strength of unobserved con-
founding if it were as strong as SMSA (an indicator variable for whether the individual lived
in a metropolitan region) along with the bias-adjusted critical value for a confounder with such
strength, t† max
α,df −1,R2 = 2.55. Since the observed t-value (2.33) is less than the adjusted critical
threshold of 2.55, this immediately reveals that confounding as strong as SMSA (e.g. residual
585
geographic confounding) is already sufﬁciently strong to be problematic.
It will often be valuable to assess the sensitivity of the instrumental variable estimate against
hypothesis other than zero. To that end, investigators may wish to examine sensitivity contour
plots showing the whole range of adjusted lower and upper limits of the Anderson-Rubin conﬁ-
dence interval against various strengths of the omitted variables W. These contours are shown in
590
Figure 1. Here the horizontal axis indicates the bounds on R2
Z∼W|X and the vertical axis indicates
the bounds on R2
Yτ0∼W|Z,X. Under a constant treatment effects model, R2
Yτ0∼W|Z,X has a simple
interpretation—it stands for how much residual variation confounders explain of the untreated
potential outcome. For simplicity, of exposition, we adopt this interpretation here. The contour
lines show the worst lower (or upper) limit of the CImax
1−α,R2(τ), with omitted variables bounded
595
by such strength. Red dashed lines shows a critical contour line of interest (such as zero) as
well as the boundary beyond conﬁdence intervals become unbounded. The red diamonds places
bounds on strength of W as strong as Black (an indicator for race) and, again, SMSA, as per Sec-
tion 4.7. As the plot reveals, both confounding as strong as SMSA, or as strong as black, could
lead to an interval for the target parameter of CImax
1−α,R2(τ) = [−0.02, 0.40], which includes not
600
only implausibly high values (40%), but also negative values (-2%), and is thus too wide for any
meaningful conclusions. Since it is not very difﬁcult to imagine residual confounders as strong
or stronger than those (e.g., parental income, ﬁner grained geographic location, etc), these results
call into question the strength of evidence provided by this study.
6.
DISCUSSION
605
Sensitivity analysis tools, such as those introduced in this paper, provide logical deductions
aimed at: (i) revealing the consequences of varying degrees of violation of identifying assump-
tions (e.g., via bias-adjusted critical values), and (ii) determining the minimal degree of viola-
tion of those assumptions necessary to overturn certain conclusions (e.g., via robustness values).
This shifts the scientiﬁc debate from arguing whether, say, latent confounders of an instrumental
610
variable have exactly zero strength—an indefensible claim in most settings—to a more realistic
discussion about whether we can conﬁdently rule out strengths that are shown to be problematic.
Omitted Variable Bias for Instrumental Variables
17
Partial R2 of confounder(s) with the instrument
Partial R2 of confounder(s) with the pot. outcome
 −0.093 
 −0.035 
 0 
 0.022 
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
 −Inf 
Unadjusted
(0.025)
1x black
(−0.0212)
1x smsa
(−0.0192)
(a) Sensitivity contours for the lower limit.
Partial R2 of confounder(s) with the instrument
Partial R2 of confounder(s) with the pot. outcome
 0.29 
 0.448 
 0.758 
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
 Inf 
Unadjusted
(0.28)
1x black
(0.4019)
1x smsa
(0.3958)
(b) Sensitivity contours for the upper limit.
Figure 1: Sensitivity contours of the Anderson-Rubin conﬁdence interval.
The results of sensitivity analyses are not always self-evident and can often be surprising.
They may reveal that certain studies are highly sensitive to plausible perturbations of identifying
assumptions, while others remain robust despite such perturbations. Even when results fall in
615
between these two extremes, sensitivity analyses still represent an improvement over simply as-
suming away the problem. They clarify what one needs to know, by transparently revealing how
vulnerable the results are to violations of the exclusion and independence restrictions. This pro-
vides policymakers a better understanding of what remains unknown about an estimated effect,
and offers researchers a roadmap for improving their analyses in future inquiries.
620
It is important to emphasize that plausibility judgments on the maximum strength of latent
variables inevitably depend on expert knowledge and can thus vary substantially across scientiﬁc
disciplines, ﬁelds of study, and the quality of the research design. For that reason, we do not
propose any universal thresholds for the sensitivity statistics we propose here. For instance, in
an observational study without randomization nor a rich set of measured confounders, it would
625
be hard to rule out latent confounders that explain, say, 1% of the residual variation of the in-
strument. This indeed seems to be the case in our running example (Card, 1993), where residual
geographic confounders could plausibly attain such strength. In other scientiﬁc contexts, how-
ever, a value of 1% may in fact be large. For example, in a Mendelian randomization study where
the main concern is pleiotropy, it may be defensible to argue against genetic variants explaining
630
1% of the variation of a latent complex pleiotropic trait (Cinelli et al., 2022).
Finally, in this paper we focused on the traditional instrumental variable estimand, consist-
ing of the ratio of two regression coefﬁcients. We chose to do so because this reﬂects current
practices for IV analysis and encompasses the vast majority of applied work. These tools can
thus be immediately put to use to improve the robustness of current research, without requiring
635
any additional assumptions, beyond those that already justiﬁed the traditional IV analysis in the
ﬁrst place. Recent papers, however, have usefully questioned the causal interpretation of this es-
timand, as it relies on strong parametric assumptions (Słoczy´nski, 2020; Blandhol et al., 2022).
Extending the sensitivity tools we present here to the nonparametric case is possible by lever-
18
CINELLI & HAZLETT
aging recent results in Chernozhukov et al. (2022), and offers an interesting direction for future
640
work.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
The authors thank the editor, associated editor, and reviewers for helpful comments. Cinelli’s
research was supported in part by the Royalty Research Fund at the University of Washington,
and by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. MMS-2417955.
645
SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL
The Supplementary Material provides proofs for all results, compares our proposal with alter-
native approaches, and includes additional analyses of the empirical example.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Anderson, T. W. and Rubin, H. (1949). Estimation of the parameters of a single equation in a complete system of
650
stochastic equations. The Annals of Mathematical Statistics, 20(1):46–63.
Andrews, I., Stock, J. H., and Sun, L. (2019). Weak instruments in instrumental variables regression: Theory and
practice. Annual Review of Economics, 11:727–753.
Angrist, J. D., Imbens, G. W., and Rubin, D. B. (1996). Identiﬁcation of causal effects using instrumental variables.
Journal of the American statistical Association, 91(434):444–455.
655
Angrist, J. D. and Krueger, A. B. (2001). Instrumental variables and the search for identiﬁcation: From supply and
demand to natural experiments. Journal of Economic perspectives, 15(4):69–85.
Angrist, J. D. and Pischke, J.-S. (2009).
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist’s companion.
Princeton
university press.
Belzil, C. and Hansen, J. (2002). Unobserved ability and the return to schooling. Econometrica, 70(5):2075–2091.
660
Blandhol, C., Bonney, J., Mogstad, M., and Torgovitsky, A. (2022). When is TSLS actually late? Technical report,
National Bureau of Economic Research.
Blundell, R., Dearden, L., and Sianesi, B. (2001). Estimating the returns to education: Models, methods and results.
Bound, J., Jaeger, D. A., and Baker, R. M. (1995). Problems with instrumental variables estimation when the correla-
tion between the instruments and the endogenous explanatory variable is weak. Journal of the American statistical
665
association, 90(430):443–450.
Burgess, S. and Thompson, S. G. (2015). Mendelian randomization: methods for using genetic variants in causal
estimation. CRC Press.
Card, D. (1993). Using geographic variation in college proximity to estimate the return to schooling. Technical report,
National Bureau of Economic Research.
670
Chernozhukov, V., Cinelli, C., Newey, W., Sharma, A., and Syrgkanis, V. (2022). Long story short: Omitted variable
bias in causal machine learning. Technical report, National Bureau of Economic Research.
Cinelli, C. and Hazlett, C. (2020). Making sense of sensitivity: Extending omitted variable bias. Journal of the Royal
Statistical Society: Series B (Statistical Methodology).
Cinelli, C., Kumor, D., Chen, B., Pearl, J., and Bareinboim, E. (2019). Sensitivity analysis of linear structural causal
675
models. International Conference on Machine Learning.
Cinelli, C., LaPierre, N., Hill, B. L., Sankararaman, S., and Eskin, E. (2022). Robust mendelian randomization in
the presence of residual population stratiﬁcation, batch effects and horizontal pleiotropy. Nature communications,
13(1):1–13.
Conley, T. G., Hansen, C. B., and Rossi, P. E. (2012). Plausibly exogenous. Review of Economics and Statistics,
680
94(1):260–272.
Deaton, A. S. (2009). Instruments of development: Randomization in the tropics, and the search for the elusive keys
to economic development. Technical report, National bureau of economic research.
Felton, C. and Stewart, B. M. (2022). Handle with care: A sociologist’s guide to causal inference with instrumental
variables.
685
Fieller, E. C. (1954).
Some problems in interval estimation.
Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series B
(Methodological), 16(2):175–185.
Frisch, R. and Waugh, F. V. (1933). Partial time regressions as compared with individual trends. Econometrica:
Journal of the Econometric Society, pages 387–401.
Gallen, T. (2020). Broken instruments. Available at SSRN.
690
Omitted Variable Bias for Instrumental Variables
19
Gunsilius, F. (2020). Non-testability of instrument validity under continuous treatments. Biometrika.
Heckman, J. J. and Urzua, S. (2010). Comparing IV with structural models: What simple IV can and cannot identify.
Journal of Econometrics, 156(1):27–37.
Hern´an, M. A. and Robins, J. M. (2006). Instruments for causal inference: an epidemiologist’s dream? Epidemiology,
pages 360–372.
695
Imbens, G. (2014). Instrumental variables: An econometrician’s perspective. Technical report, National Bureau of
Economic Research.
Imbens, G. W. and Rosenbaum, P. R. (2005). Robust, accurate conﬁdence intervals with a weak instrument: quarter
of birth and education. Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series A (Statistics in Society), 168(1):109–126.
Imbens, G. W. and Rubin, D. B. (2015). Causal inference in statistics, social, and biomedical sciences. Cambridge
700
University Press.
Jaeger, D. A. and Parys, J. (2009). On the sensitivity of return to schooling estimates to estimation methods, model
speciﬁcation, and inﬂuential outliers if identiﬁcation is weak.
K´edagni, D. and Mouriﬁ´e, I. (2020). Generalized instrumental inequalities: testing the instrumental variable indepen-
dence assumption. Biometrika.
705
Keele, L., Small, D., and Grieve, R. (2017). Randomization-based instrumental variables methods for binary outcomes
with an application to the ‘improve’trial. Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series A (Statistics in Society),
180(2):569–586.
Kleibergen, F. (2002). Pivotal statistics for testing structural parameters in instrumental variables regression. Econo-
metrica, 70(5):1781–1803.
710
Kruskal, W. and Majors, R. (1989). Concepts of relative importance in recent scientiﬁc literature. The American
Statistician, 43(1):2–6.
Lovell, M. C. (1963). Seasonal adjustment of economic time series and multiple regression analysis. Journal of the
American Statistical Association, 58(304):993–1010.
Masten, M. A. and Poirier, A. (2021). Salvaging falsiﬁed instrumental variable models. Econometrica, 89(3):1449–
715
1469.
Mellon, J. (2020). Rain, rain, go away: 137 potential exclusion-restriction violations for studies using weather as an
instrumental variable. Available at SSRN.
Moreira, M. J. (2003). A conditional likelihood ratio test for structural models. Econometrica, 71(4):1027–1048.
Moreira, M. J. (2009). Tests with correct size when instruments can be arbitrarily weak. Journal of Econometrics,
720
152(2):131–140.
Nelson, C. and Startz, R. (1990). Some further results on the exact small sample properties of the instrumental variable
estimator.
Pearl, J. (1995). On the testability of causal models with latent and instrumental variables. In Proceedings of the
Eleventh conference on Uncertainty in artiﬁcial intelligence, pages 435–443. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc.
725
Pearl, J. (2009). Causality. Cambridge university press.
Słoczy´nski, T. (2020). When should we (not) interpret linear iv estimands as late? arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.06695.
Small, D. S. (2007). Sensitivity analysis for instrumental variables regression with overidentifying restrictions. Jour-
nal of the American Statistical Association, 102(479):1049–1058.
Small, D. S. and Rosenbaum, P. R. (2008). War and wages: the strength of instrumental variables and their sensitivity
730
to unobserved biases. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 103(483):924–933.
Staiger, D. O. and Stock, J. H. (1994). Instrumental variables regression with weak instruments.
Stock, J. H. and Yogo, M. (2002). Testing for weak instruments in linear iv regression.
Swanson, S. A., Hern´an, M. A., Miller, M., Robins, J. M., and Richardson, T. S. (2018). Partial identiﬁcation of the
average treatment effect using instrumental variables: review of methods for binary instruments, treatments, and
735
outcomes. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 113(522):933–947.
Wang, X., Jiang, Y., Zhang, N. R., and Small, D. S. (2018). Sensitivity analysis and power for instrumental variable
studies. Biometrics.
Young, A. (2022). Consistency without inference: Instrumental variables in practical application. European Economic
Review, page 104112.
740
Supplementary Materials for
“An Omitted Variable Bias Framework for Sensitivity Analysis of
Instrumental Variables”
Carlos Cinelli & Chad Hazlett
A
The mechanics of IV estimation
For ease of reference, in this section we show in detail some of the algebraic identities (and diﬀerences) of
the main approaches to IV estimation.
Notation.
We denote by Y the (n × 1) vector of the outcome of interest with n observations; by D the
(n × 1) treatment vector; by Z the (n × 1) vector of the instrument; by X an (n × p) matrix of observed
covariates (including a constant), and by W an (n × l) matrix of unobserved covariates. We use Y ⊥X to
denote the part of Y not linearly explained by X, that is, Y ⊥X := Y −X(X′X)−1X′Y . Throughout, we
assume that the relevant matrices have full rank. In this section df := n −p −l −1.
A.1
Indirect Least Squares (ILS)
ILS is perhaps the most straightforward approach to instrumental variable estimation. We start with two
OLS models, one capturing the eﬀect of the instrument on the treatment (ﬁrst stage) and another the eﬀect
of the instrument on the outcome (reduced form),
First stage:
D = ˆθZ + X ˆψ + W ˆδ + ˆεd,
(1)
Reduced form:
Y = ˆλZ + X ˆβ + W ˆγ + ˆεy,
(2)
where ˆθ, ˆψ and ˆδ are the OLS estimates of the regression of D on Z, X and W , and ˆεd its corresponding
residuals; analogously, ˆλ, ˆβ and ˆγ are the OLS estimates of the regression of Y on Z, X and W , and ˆεy its
corresponding residuals.
Point Estimate.
The estimator for τ is constructed by simply using the plug-in principle and taking the
ratio of ˆλ and ˆθ,
ˆτILS :=
ˆλ
ˆθ
.
(3)
Inference.
Inference in the ILS framework is usually performed using the delta-method, with estimated
variance
c
var(ˆτILS) := 1
ˆθ2

c
var(ˆλ) + ˆτ 2
ILS c
var(ˆθ) −2ˆτILSd
cov(ˆλ, ˆθ)

(4)
where, using the FWL formulation,
c
var(ˆλ) = var(Y ⊥Z,X,W )
var(Z⊥X,W ) × df−1,
c
var(ˆθ) = var(D⊥Z,X,W )
var(Z⊥X,W ) × df−1
(5)
are the estimated variances of the reduced form and ﬁrst stage, and
1
d
cov(ˆλ, ˆθ) = cov(Y ⊥Z,X,W , D⊥Z,X,W )
var(Z⊥X,W )
× df−1
(6)
is the estimated covariance of ˆλ and ˆθ. Here var(·) and cov(·) denote sample variances of covariances.
A.2
Two-Stage Least Squares (2SLS)
A closely related approach for instrumental variable estimation is denoted by “two-stage least squares”
(2SLS). As its name suggests, this involves two nested steps of OLS estimation: a ﬁrst-stage regression given
by Equation (1) to produce ﬁtted values for the treatment ( bD), then regressing the outcome on these ﬁtted
values,
Second stage:
Y = ˆτ2SLS bD + X ˆβ2SLS + W ˆγ2SLS + ˆε2SLS.
(7)
The 2SLS estimate corresponds to the coeﬃcient ˆτ2SLS in Equation (7), called the “second-stage” regression.
Point Estimate.
By the FWL theorem, the 2SLS point estimate can be written as
ˆτ2SLS = cov(Y ⊥X,W , bD⊥X,W )
var( bD⊥X,W )
.
(8)
In the just-identiﬁed case, the ILS and 2SLS point estimates are numerically identical. Expanding bD and
partialling out {X, W } we have that
ˆτ2SLS = cov(Y ⊥X,W , bD⊥X,W )
var( bD⊥X,W )
= cov(Y ⊥X,W , ˆθZ⊥X,W )
var(ˆθZ⊥X,W )
=
ˆθ × cov(Y ⊥X,W , Z⊥X,W )
ˆθ2 × var(Z⊥X,W )
=
ˆλ
ˆθ
,
(9)
which establishes the equality ˆτ2SLS = ˆτILS =: ˆτ.
Inference.
By the FWL theorem, the standard two-stage least squares estimate of the variance of ˆτ2SLS
can be written as
c
var(ˆτ2SLS) := var(Y ⊥X,W −ˆτD⊥X,W )
var( bD⊥X,W )
× df−1 .
(10)
As with the point estimate, for the just-identiﬁed case, the estimated variance of ILS and 2SLS are numeri-
cally identical. To see why, note the denominator of Equation (10) can be expanded to
var( bD⊥X,W ) = var(ˆθZ⊥X,W ) = ˆθ2 var(Z⊥X,W ).
(11)
Finally, the numerator can be written as,
var(Y ⊥X,W −ˆτD⊥X,W ) = var(Y ⊥X,W −ˆτ(ˆθZX,W + D⊥Z,X,W ))
(12)
= var((Y ⊥X,W −ˆλZX,W ) −ˆτD⊥Z,X,W )
(13)
= var(Y ⊥Z,X,W −ˆτD⊥Z,X,W )
(14)
= var(Y ⊥Z,X,W ) + ˆτ 2 var(D⊥Z,X,W ) −2ˆτ cov(Y ⊥Z,X,W , D⊥Z,X,W ).
(15)
2
Plugging in Equations (15) and (11) back in Equation (10), then using Equations (5) and (6) establishes the
desired equality.
A.3
Anderson-Rubin (AR)
The Anderson-Rubin approach (Anderson and Rubin, 1949) starts by creating the random variable Yτ0 :=
Y −τ0D in which we subtract from Y a “putative” causal eﬀect of D, namely, τ0. If Z is a valid instrument,
under the null hypothesis H0 : τ = τ0, we should not see an association between Yτ0 and Z, conditional on
X and W . In other words, if we run the OLS model
Anderson-Rubin:
Yτ0 = ˆφτ0Z + X ˆβτ0 + W ˆγτ0 + ˆετ0,
(16)
we should ﬁnd that ˆφτ0 is equal to zero, but for sampling variation. This forms the basis for the point
estimate and conﬁdence interval in the AR approach.
Point Estimate.
We deﬁne the Anderson-Rubin point estimate to be the value of τ0 that makes ˆφ = 0,
ie,
ˆτAR = {τ0; ˆφτ0 = 0}.
(17)
Resorting again to the FWL theorem, we can write the regression coeﬃcient of the AR regression, ˆφτ0, as a
function of the regression coeﬃcients of the ﬁrst stage and reduced form,
ˆφτ0 = cov(Y ⊥X,W −τ0D⊥X,W , Z⊥X,W )
var(Z⊥X,W )
(18)
= cov(Y ⊥X,W , Z⊥X,W )
var(Z⊥X,W )
−τ0
cov(D⊥X,W , Z⊥X,W )
var(Z⊥X,W )
(19)
= ˆλ −τ0ˆθ.
(20)
Thus solving for the condition ˆφτ0 = 0 gives us
ˆτAR =
ˆλ
ˆθ
,
(21)
which establishes the equality ˆτAR = ˆτILS. Therefore, all the point estimates of ILS, 2SLS and AR are
numerically identical.
Inference.
The AR conﬁdence interval with signiﬁcance level α is deﬁned as all values of τ0 such that we
cannot reject the null hypothesis H0 : φτ0 = 0 at the chosen signiﬁcance level
CI1−α(τ) = {τ0; t2
ˆφτ0 ≤t∗2
α,df}.
(22)
This conﬁdence interval can be obtained analytically as functions of the estimates of the ﬁrst-stage and
reduced form regressions. As shown in Equation (20), ˆφτ0 can be written as the linear combination
ˆφτ0 = ˆλ −τ0ˆθ.
(23)
3
Likewise, by the FWL theorem, the estimated variance of ˆφτ0 is given by
c
var(ˆφτ0) = var(Y ⊥Z,X,W −τ0D⊥Z,X,W )
var(Z⊥X,W )
× df−1
(24)
=
var(Y ⊥Z,X,W )
var(Z⊥X,W ) + τ 2
0
var(D⊥Z,X,W )
var(Z⊥X,W ) −2τ0
cov(Y ⊥Z,X,W , D⊥Z,X,W )
var(Z⊥X,W )

× df−1
(25)
= c
var(ˆλ) + τ 2
0 c
var(ˆθ) −2τ0d
cov(ˆλ, ˆθ).
(26)
Thus, we obtain that the t-value tˆφτ0 for testing the null hypothesis H0 : φτ0 = 0 equals to
tˆφτ0 =
ˆλ −τ0ˆθ
q
c
var(ˆλ) + τ 2
0 c
var(ˆθ) −2τ0d
cov(ˆλ, ˆθ)
.
(27)
And our task is to ﬁnd all values of τ0 such that the following inequality holds
(ˆλ −τ0ˆθ)2
c
var(ˆλ) + τ 2
0 c
var(ˆθ) −2τ0d
cov(ˆλ, ˆθ)
≤t
∗2
α,df.
(28)
First, note that the empty set is not possible here. If we pick τ0 = ˆτAR, then the numerator in Equation (28)
is zero, and the inequality trivially holds—therefore, the point-estimate is always included in the conﬁdence
interval. Now squaring and rearranging terms we obtain

ˆθ2 −c
var(ˆθ) × t∗2
α,df

|
{z
}
a
τ 2
0 + 2

d
cov(ˆλ, ˆθ) × t∗2
α,df −ˆλˆθ

|
{z
}
b
τ0 +

ˆλ2 −c
var(ˆλ) × t∗2
α,df

|
{z
}
c
≤0.
(29)
Our task has simpliﬁed to ﬁnd all values of τ0 that makes the above quadratic equation, with coeﬃcients a,
b and c, non-positive. As discussed in Section F.1, this conﬁdence intervals can take three diﬀerent forms,
depending on the instrument strength: (i) ﬁnite and connected, (ii) the union two disjoint half lines; or, (iii)
the whole real line.
A.4
Fieller’s theorem
Fieller’s proposal to test the null hypothesis H0 : τ = τ0 is to construct the linear combination ˆφτ0 = ˆλ−τ0ˆθ,
and to test the null hypothesis H0 : φτ0 = 0. The standard estimated variance for ˆφτ0 equals Equation (26),
resulting in a test statistic equal to Equation (27), and thus numerically identical to the AR approach.
B
OVB with the partial R2 parameterization
As in the main text, we use the reduced form as an example, with the understanding that all results here
hold for arbitrary OLS estimates.
B.1
Proof of Theorem 1
Theorem 1 was derived in Cinelli and Hazlett (2020). For completeness, we reproduce the proof here. As
before var(·), sd(·), cov(·), cor(·) denote sample variances, standard deviations, covariances and correlations
4
respectively. By the FWL theorem,
|ˆλres −ˆλ| =
cov(Z⊥X, W ⊥X)
var(Z⊥X)
 cov(Y ⊥X,Z, W ⊥X,Z)
var(W ⊥X,Z)

=
cor(Z⊥X, W ⊥X)sd(W ⊥X)
sd(Z⊥X)
 cor(Y ⊥X,Z, W ⊥X,D)sd(Y ⊥X,Z)
sd(W ⊥X,D)

=

cor(Y ⊥X,Z, W ⊥X,Z)cor(Z⊥X, W ⊥X)
sd(W ⊥X,Z)
sd(W ⊥X)


sd(Y ⊥X,Z)
sd(Z⊥X)

.
(30)
Noting that cor(Y ⊥X,Z, W ⊥X,Z)2 = R2
Y ∼W|Z,X, that cor(W ⊥X, Z⊥X)2 = R2
D∼W|X, and that var(W ⊥X,Z)
var(W ⊥X) =
1 −R2
W∼D|X = 1 −R2
D∼W|X, we can write (30) as
|ˆλres −ˆλ| =
v
u
u
tR2
Y ∼W|Z,X R2
D∼W|X
1 −R2
D∼W|X
× sd(Y ⊥X,Z)
sd(Z⊥X)
=
q
R2
Y ∼W|Z,X f2
D∼W|X × sd(Y ⊥X,Z)
sd(Z⊥X) .
(31)
Note this is a general bias result for linear projections, and it holds both in the sample as well as in the
population, by simply replacing sample quantities with the analogous population quantities.
As for the classical standard errors, recall that, again by the FWL theorem, they can be written as:
bse(ˆλres) = sd(Y ⊥X,Z)
sd(Z⊥X)
r
1
df,
bse(ˆλ) = sd(Y ⊥X,Z,W )
sd(Z⊥X,W )
r
1
df −1.
(32)
Where here df = n −p −1. Taking the ratio we obtain
bse(ˆλ)
bse(ˆλres)
=
sd(Y ⊥X,Z,W )
sd(Y ⊥X,Z)
  sd(Z⊥X)
sd(Z⊥X,W )
 r
df
df −1.
(33)
Using the same partial R2 identities as before, we have
bse(ˆλ) =
v
u
u
t1 −R2
Y ∼W|Z,X
1 −R2
Z∼W|X
× bse(ˆλres) ×
r
df
df −1 =
v
u
u
t1 −R2
Y ∼W|Z,X
1 −R2
Z∼W|X
× sd(Y ⊥X,Z)
sd(Z⊥X) ×
r
1
df −1.
(34)
To aid interpretation, we deﬁne BF :=
r
R2
Y ∼W |Z,XR2
Z∼W |X
1−R2
Z∼W |X
as the “bias factor” of W, which is the part of
the bias solely determined by R2
Y ∼W|Z,X and R2
Z∼W|X, and SEF :=
r
1−R2
Y ∼W |Z,X
1−R2
Z∼W |X
as the “standard error
factor” of W, summarizing the factor of the standard error which is solely determined by the sensitivity
parameters R2
Y ∼W|Z,X and R2
Z∼W|X.
C
Bias-adjusted critical values
As in the main text, we use the reduced form as an example, with the understanding that all results here
hold for arbitrary OLS estimates. Here df = n −p −1.
5
C.1
Proof of Theorem 2
Let LL1−α(λ) := ˆλ −t∗
α,df −1 × bse(ˆλ) be the lower limit of a 1 −α level conﬁdence interval of the full reduced
form regression, where t∗
α,df −1 denotes the critical α-level threshold of the t-distribution with df −1 degrees
of freedom. Considering the direction of the bias that reduces the lower limit we obtain,
LL1−α(λ) := ˆλ −t∗
α,df −1 × bse(ˆλ)
(35)
= ˆλres −BF
√
df × bse(ˆλres) −t∗
α,df −1 × SEF
p
df /(df −1) × bse(ˆλres)
(36)
= ˆλres −

SEF
p
df /(df −1) × t∗
α,df −1 + BF
√
df

× bse(ˆλres).
(37)
Similarly, now let UL1−α(λ) the upper limit of the conﬁdence interval and consider the direction of the bias
that increases the upper limit. By the same algebraic manipulations, we obtain
UL1−α(λ) = ˆλres +

SEF
p
df /(df −1) × t∗
α,df −1 + BF
√
df

× bse(ˆλres).
(38)
Note that, in both Equations (37) and (38), the only part that depends on the omitted variable W is the
common multiple of the observed standard error, which deﬁnes the new bias-adjusted critical value,
t†
α,df −1,R2 := SEF
p
df /(df −1) × t∗
α,df −1 + BF
√
df.
(39)
C.2
Proof of Theorem 3
Now suppose the analyst wishes to investigate the worst possible lower (or upper) limits of the conﬁdence
intervals induced by a confounder with strength no stronger than certain bounds, for instance, R2
Y ∼W|Z,X ≤
R2 max
Y ∼W|Z,X and R2
Z∼W|X ≤R2 max
Z∼W|X. As per the last section, this amounts to ﬁnding the largest bias-
adjusted critical value induced by an omitted variable W with at most such strength. That is, we need to
solve the following maximization problem
max
R2
Y ∼W |Z,X,R2
Z∼W |X
t†
α,df −1,R2
s.t.
R2
Y ∼W|Z,X ≤R2 max
Y ∼W|Z,X,
R2
Z∼W|X ≤R2 max
Z∼W|X.
(40)
Dividing t†
α,df −1,R2 by
√
df and letting f∗
α,df −1 := t∗
α,df −1/
√
df −1, we see that the derivative of t†
α,df −1,R2
with respect to R2
Z∼W|X is always increasing, since
∂(t†
α,df −1,R2/
√
df)
∂R2
Z∼W|X
=
∂BF
∂R2
Z∼W|X
+ f∗
α,df −1 ×
∂SEF
∂R2
Z∼W|X
(41)
=
(R2
Y ∼W|Z,X)1/2
2(1 −R2
Z∼W|X)3/2(R2
Z∼W|X)1/2 + f∗
α,df −1
(1 −R2
Y ∼W|Z,X)1/2
2(1 −R2
Z∼W|X)3/2
(42)
=
(R2
Y ∼W|Z,X)1/2 + f∗
α,df −1(1 −R2
Y ∼W|Z,X)1/2(R2
Z∼W|X)1/2
2(1 −R2
Z∼W|X)3/2(R2
Z∼W|X)1/2
≥0.
(43)
Therefore, the optimal R2∗
Z∼W|X (the one the minimizes (maximizes) the lower (upper) limit of the conﬁ-
dence interval) always reaches the bound. However, the same is not true for the derivative with respect to
6
R2
Y ∼W|Z,X. To see that, write,
∂(t†
α,df −1,R2/
√
df)
∂R2
Y ∼W|Z,X
=
∂BF
∂R2
Y ∼W|Z,X
+ f∗
α,df −1 ×
∂SEF
∂R2
Y ∼W|Z,X
(44)
=
(R2
Z∼W|X)1/2
2(1 −R2
Z∼W|X)1/2(R2
Y ∼W|Z,X)1/2 +
−f∗
α,df −1
2(1 −R2
Y ∼W|Z,X)1/2(1 −R2
Z∼W|X)1/2
(45)
=
(R2
Z∼W|X)1/2(1 −R2
Y ∼W|Z,X)1/2 −f∗
α,df −1(R2
Y ∼W|Z,X)1/2
2(R2
Y ∼W|Z,X)1/2(1 −R2
Y ∼W|Z,X)1/2(1 −R2
Z∼W|X)1/2
.
(46)
That is, due to the variance reduction factor of the omitted variable, it could be the case that increasing
R2
Y ∼W|Z,X reduces the standard error more than enough to compensate for the increase in bias, resulting in
tighter conﬁdence intervals.
We have, thus, two cases. First, consider the case in which the optimal point reaches both bounds. In
that case, the numerator of Equation (46) must be positive when evaluated at the solution. Rearranging
and squaring, we see that this happens when
R2 max
Z∼W|X ≥f∗2
α,df −1 × f2 max
Y ∼W|Z,X.
(47)
Clearly, when considering the sensitivity of the point estimate, we have f∗
α,df −1 = 0, and the condition always
holds. If condition of Equation (47) fails, then the optimal R2∗
Y ∼W|Z,X will be an interior point. This will
happen when the numerator of Equation (46) equals zero. Since we know R2
Z∼W|X reaches its maximum,
the optimal R2∗
Y ∼W|Z,X will be,
R2∗
Y ∼W|Z,X =
R2 max
Z∼W|X
f∗2
α,df −1 + R2 max
Z∼W|X
.
(48)
D
(Extreme) Robustness Values for OLS
As in the main text, we use the reduced form as an example, with the understanding that all results here
hold for arbitrary OLS estimates.
D.1
Proof of Theorem 4
The Extreme Robustness Value XRVq∗,α(λ) is deﬁned as the greatest lower bound XRV on the sensitivity
parameter R2
Z∼W|X, while keeping the parameter R2
Y ∼W|Z,X unconstrained, such that the null hypothesis
that a change of (100 × q)% of the original estimate, H0 : λ = (1 −q∗)ˆλres, is not rejected at the α level:
XRVq∗,α(λ) := inf
n
XRV; (1 −q∗)ˆλres ∈CImax
1−α,1,XRV(λ)
o
.
(49)
First, consider the case where fq∗(λ) < f∗
α,df −1. Note the XRV will be zero, since we already cannot reject
the null hypothesis H0 : λ = (1 −q∗)ˆλres even assuming zero omitted variable bias. Next, note that, when
f∗
α,df −1 > 0, we can always pick a large enough value for R2
Y ∼W|Z,X until condition (47) fails (since f2
Y ∼W|Z,X
is unbounded). Therefore, XRV will be given by an interior point solution. Using Equation (48) to express
t† max
α,df −1,R2 solely in terms of the optimal R2
Z∼W|X, and solving for the value that gives us (1 −q∗)ˆλres, we
7
obtain
XRVq∗,α(λ) =







0,
if fq∗(λ) ≤f∗
α,df−1,
f2
q∗(λ) −f∗2
α,df−1
1 + f2
q∗(λ)
, otherwise.
(50)
D.2
Proof of Theorem 5
The Robustness Value RVq∗,α(λ) for not rejecting the null hypothesis that H0 : λ = (1 −q∗)ˆλres, at the
signiﬁcance level α, is deﬁned as
RVq∗,α(λ) := inf
n
RV; (1 −q∗)ˆλres ∈CImax
1−α,RV,RV(λ)
o
,
(51)
where now we consider both sensitivity parameters bounded by RV. Again, consider the case where fq∗(λ) <
f∗
α,df −1. The RV then must be zero, since we already cannot reject the null hypothesis H0 : λ = (1 −q∗)ˆλres
given the current data. Next, let’s consider the case when the bound on R2
Y ∼W|Z,X is not biding—here our
optimization problem reduces to the XRV case. Finally, we have the solution in which both coordinates
achieve the bound, resulting in a quadratic equation as solved in Cinelli and Hazlett (2020). We thus have,
RVq∗,α(λ) =









0,
if fq∗(λ) ≤f∗
α,df−1,
1
2
q
f4
q∗,α(λ) + 4f2
q∗,α(λ) −f2
q∗,α(λ)

, if f∗
α,df−1 < fq∗(λ) < f∗−1
α,df−1,
XRVq∗,α(λ),
otherwise.
(52)
The condition fq∗(λ) < f∗−1
α,df−1, stems from the fact that the XRV solution cannot satisfy Equation (47).
We now show that this is equivalent to the condition RVq∗,α(λ) > 1 −1/f2
q∗(λ) that Cinelli and Hazlett
(2020) had previously established. If fq∗(λ) < 1/f∗
α,df−1 then,
RVq∗,α(λ) = 1
2
q
f4
q∗,α(λ) + 4f2
q∗,α(λ) −f2
q∗,α(λ)

(53)
= 1
2
q
(fq∗(λ) −f∗
α,df−1)4 + 4(fq∗(λ) −f∗
α,df−1)2 −(fq∗(λ) −f∗
α,df−1)2
(54)
> 1
2
q
(fq∗(λ) −1/fq∗(λ))4 + 4(fq∗(λ) −1/fq∗(λ))2 −(fq∗(λ) −1/fq∗(λ))2

(55)
= 1
2



v
u
u
t
f2q (λ) −1
fq∗(λ)
4
+ 4
 
f2
q∗(λ) −1
fq∗(λ)
!2
−
 
f2
q∗(λ) −1
fq∗(λ)
!2



(56)
=
1
2
 
f2
q∗(λ) −1
f2
q∗(λ)
! q
(f2q (λ) −1)2 + 4f2
q∗(λ) −f2
q∗(λ) + 1

(57)
=
1
2
  1 −1/f2
q∗(λ)
 q
f4q (λ) + 1 −2f2
q∗(λ) + 4f2
q∗(λ) −f2
q∗(λ) + 1

(58)
=
1
2
  1 −1/f2
q∗(λ)
 q
f4q (λ) + 1 + 2f2
q∗(λ) −f2
q∗(λ) + 1

(59)
=
1
2
  1 −1/f2
q∗(λ)
  f2
q∗(λ) + 1 −f2
q∗(λ) + 1

(60)
= 1 −1/f2
q∗(λ)
(61)
8
Therefore, fq∗(λ) < 1/f∗
α,df−1
=⇒RVq∗,α(λ) > 1 −1/f2
q∗(λ). By the same argument one can derive
RVq∗,α(λ) > 1 −1/f2
q∗(λ) =⇒fq(λ) > 1/f∗
α,df−1. Hence, both conditions are equivalent.
E
Bounds on the strength of W
As in the main text, we use the reduced form as an example, with the understanding that all results here
hold for arbitrary OLS estimates.
E.1
Proof of Theorem 6
Let Xj be a speciﬁc covariate of the set X. Now deﬁne
kZ :=
R2
Z∼W|X−j
R2
Z∼Xj|X−j
,
kY :=
R2
Y ∼W|Z,X−j
R2
Y ∼Xj|ZX−j
.
(62)
Where X−j is the set X excluding covariate Xj. Our goal in this section is to re-express (or bound) both
sensitivity parameters as a function of the new parameters kZ and kY and the observed data.
We can thus start by re-expressing R2
Y ∼W|Z,X in terms of kY , which in this case is straightforward.
Using the recursive deﬁnition of partial correlations, and considering our two conditions R2
W∼Xj|Z,X−j = 0
and R2
Y ∼W|Z,X−j = kY R2
Y ∼Xj|ZX−j, we obtain
RY ∼W|Z,X
 =

RY ∼W|Z,X−j −RY ∼Xj|Z,X−jRW∼Xj|Z,X−j
q
1 −R2
Y ∼Xj|Z,X−j
q
1 −R2
W∼Xj|Z,X−j

(63)
=

RY ∼W|Z,X−j
q
1 −R2
Y ∼Xj|Z,X−j

(64)
=

√kY RY ∼Xj|Z,X−j
q
1 −R2
Y ∼Xj|Z,X−j

(65)
=
p
kY
fY ∼Xj|Z,X−j
 .
(66)
Hence,
R2
Y ∼W|Z,X = kY × f2
Y ∼Xj|Z,X−j.
(67)
Moving to bound R2
Z∼W|X, it is useful to ﬁrst note that the conditions R2
W∼Xj|Z,X−j = 0 and R2
Z∼W|X−j =
kZR2
Z∼Xj|X−j allow us to re-express RW∼Xj|X−j as a function of kZ
RW∼Xj|Z,X−j = 0 =⇒
RW∼Xj|X−j −RW∼Z|X−jRXj∼Z|X−j
q
1 −R2
W∼Z|X−j
q
1 −R2
Xj∼Z|X−j
= 0
(68)
=⇒RW∼Xj|X−j −RW∼Z|X−jRXj∼Z|X−j = 0
(69)
=⇒RW∼Xj|X−j = RW∼Z|X−jRXj∼Z|X−j
(70)
=⇒RW∼Xj|X−j = RZ∼W|X−jRZ∼Xj|X−j
(71)
=⇒|RW∼Xj|X−j| =
p
kZR2
Z∼Xj|X−j.
(72)
9
Now we can re-write R2
Z∼W|X using the recursive deﬁnition of partial correlations
RZ∼W|X
 =

RZ∼W|X−j −RZ∼Xj|X−jRW∼Xj|X−j
q
1 −R2
Z∼Xj|X−j
q
1 −R2
W∼Xj|X−j

(73)
≤
RZ∼W|X−j
 +
RZ∼Xj|X−jRW∼Xj|X−j

q
1 −R2
Z∼Xj|X−j
q
1 −R2
W∼Xj|X−j
(74)
=

√kZRZ∼Xj|X−j
 +

√kZR3
Z∼Xj|X−j

q
1 −R2
Z∼Xj|X−j
q
1 −kZR4
Z∼Xj|X−j
(75)
=


√kZ +
R3
Z∼Xj|X−j

q
1 −kZR4
Z∼Xj|X−j

×


RZ∼Xj|X−j

q
1 −R2
Z∼Xj|X−j


(76)
= η|fZ∼Xj|X−j|.
(77)
Hence we have that
R2
Z∼W|X ≤η2f2
Z∼Xj|X−j,
(78)
where η =


√kZ+
R3
Z∼Xj|X−j

q
1−kZR4
Z∼Xj|X−j

.
F
(Extreme) Robustness Values for IV
F.1
Proof of Theorems 7 and 8
Recall that in the AR framework, testing the null hypothesis H0 : τ = τ0 is equivalent to the testing the
null hypothesis H0 : φτ0 = 0. Therefore, by the deﬁnition of (X)RVq∗,α(τ), it immediately follows that
XRVq∗,α(τ) = XRV1,α(φτ ∗) and that RVq∗,α(τ) = RV1,α(φτ ∗), where τ ∗= (1−q∗)ˆτres. We now have to show
that:
XRV≥q∗,α(τ) = min{XRV1,α(φτ ∗),
XRV1,α(θ)},
(79)
RV≥q∗,α(τ) = min{RV1,α(φτ ∗),
RV1,α(θ)}.
(80)
That is, in words, that when we are interested in biases as large or larger than a certain amount, the (X)RV
of the IV estimate is bounded by the the (X)RV of the ﬁrst stage evaluated at the zero null.
To see why this is the case, consider the possible shapes of the adjusted AR conﬁdence interval CImax
1−α,R2(τ).
The interval is obtained by solving the following quadratic equation,

ˆθ2
res −c
var(ˆθres) ×

t† max
α,df −1,R2
2
|
{z
}
a
τ 2
0 + 2

d
cov(ˆλres, ˆθres) ×

t† max
α,df −1,R2
2
−ˆλresˆθres

|
{z
}
b
τ0
+

ˆλ2
res −c
var(ˆλres) ×

t† max
α,df −1,R2
2
|
{z
}
c
≤0.
(81)
10
Here df = n −p −1. Now let r = {rmin, rmax} denote the roots of the quadratic equation, which can be
written as r = −b ±
√
∆/2a, with ∆= b2 −4ac. If a > 0, the quadratic equation will be convex, and
thus only the values between the roots will be non-positive. This leads to the connected conﬁdence interval
CImax
1−α,R2(τ) = [rmin, rmax].
When a < 0, the curve is concave and this leads to unbounded conﬁdence
intervals. Here we have two sub-cases: (i) when ∆< 0, the quadratic curve never touches zero, and thus
the conﬁdence interval is simply the whole real line CImax
1−α,R2(τ) = (−∞, +∞); and, (ii) when ∆> 0 the
conﬁdence interval will be union of two disjoint intervals CImax
1−α,R2(τ) = (−∞, rmin] ∪[rmax, +∞).1 In both
cases, arbitrarily large negative or positive values are part of the conﬁdence interval, which is important for
our discussion.
Thus we have the following conclusion: whenever CImax
1−α,df −1(τ) is connected, we must have the same
solution as before, namely, that the (X)RV of the IV estimate equals the (X)RV of the AR regression
evaluated at the zero null with the appropriate outcome transformation.
However, as discussed above,
biases arbitrary larger than q∗can happen when the AR conﬁdence interval is unbounded. Unbounded
intervals occur if and only if a < 0, which is equivalent to t2
ˆθres ≤(t† max
α,df −1,R2)2. This is precisely the same
condition for the (extreme) robustness value of the ﬁrst stage evaluated at the zero null. Therefore, the
(X)RV for IV, considering biases as large or larger than a certain amount, must be the minimum of these
two values.
G
Comparison with traditional approaches
Traditional approaches for the sensitivity of IV have focused on parameterizing the bias of the IV estimate
with a single coeﬃcient that summarizes how strongly the instrument relates to the outcome “not through”
the treatment. For example, Conley et al. (2012) considers the model (for simplicity, we omit covariates X):
Yi = τDi + ηZi + εi,
(82)
where τ is the parameter of interest, and cov(Zi, εi) = 0. Here, the coeﬃcient η is a sensitivity parameter
that directly summarizes violations of instrument validity. To recover the target parameter τ, it thus suﬃces
to subtract η from the reduced-form regression coeﬃcient λ,
τ = λ −η
θ
.
(83)
Inference for the above estimand can be done in numerous ways. At a given choice of η, one could simply
subtract the postulated bias from the reduced form estimate; similarly, conﬁdence intervals can be obtained
using the delta-method. Another popular, and computationally simpler alternative is to construct an auxil-
iary outcome Yη := Y −ηZ, and then proceed with any of the estimation methods discussed here (e.g, 2SLS
or Anderson-Rubin regression) using the auxiliary variable Yη instead of Y .
Applying this approach to our running example we reach the correct, but perhaps trivial conclusion that,
in order to bring the causal eﬀect estimate to zero (τ = 0), all of the reduced-form estimate (4.2%) must
be due to the eﬀects of proximity to college on income, not through its eﬀect on years of schooling, i.e.
η = 4.2%. Other approaches, although diﬀerent in details, can be understood in similar terms. For instance,
starting from a potential outcomes framework, Wang et al. (2018) obtains a similar sensitivity model as
Equation (82), and derive the distribution of the Anderson-Rubin statistic for a given postulated value of η.
In contexts where researchers can make direct plausibility judgments about the coeﬃcient η, these
approaches oﬀer a simple and useful sensitivity analysis. In many cases, however, such as in our running
example, violations of instrument validity arise due to many possible confounding variables acting in concert,
such as family wealth, high school quality, and regional indicators. How can we reason whether all these
1See Mehlum (2020) for an intuitive graphical characterization of Fieller’s solutions using polar coordinates.
11
variables are strong enough to bring about an η ≈4.2%?
The OVB approach we present here change
the focus from η to the omitted variables W . That is, instead of asking for direct judgments about η,
the OVB approach reveals what one must believe about the maximum explanatory power of such omitted
variables in order for them to be problematic. Here W consists of the necessary set of variables to block
both confounding between the instrument and the outcome, as well as blocking paths from the instrument
to the outcome, not through the treatment (e.g, see Figure 2).
Finally, it is worth mentioning that these two approaches are not necessarily mutually exclusive. To
illustrate, suppose we have a structural model
Yi = τDi + ηZi + γW + εi.
(84)
Here suppose η now eﬀectively stands for the direct eﬀect of Z on Y , not through D nor W. If plausibility
judgments on the direct eﬀect of Z are available, we can leverage such knowledge by ﬁrst subtracting this
oﬀand then employing all OVB-based tools we have presented in this paper to perform sensitivity analysis
with respect to the remaining bias due to W.
H
Supplementary Results for the Empirical Example
H.1
Minimal reporting and sensitivity contours of the reduced form
Table 1 shows our proposal for a minimal sensitivity reporting of the reduced-form estimate (here, the eﬀect
of Proximity on Earnings). Beyond the usual statistics such as the point estimate, standard-error and t-
value, we recommend that researchers also report the: (i) partial R2 of the instrument with the outcome
(R2
Y ∼Z|X = 0.18%), as well as (ii) the robustness value (RVq∗,α = 0.67%), and (iii) the extreme robustness
value (XRVq∗,α = 0.05%), both for where the conﬁdence interval would cross zero (q∗= 1), at a chosen
signiﬁcance level (here, α = 0.05).
Outcome: Earnings (log)
Instrument
Estimate
Std. Error
t-value
R2
Y ∼Z|X
XRVq∗,α
RVq∗,α
Proximity
0.042
0.018
2.33
0.18%
0.05%
0.67%
Bound (1x SMSA): R2
Y ∼W |Z,X = 2%, R2
W ∼Z|X = 0.6%, t† max
α,df −1,R2 = 2.55
Note: df = 2994,
q∗= 1,
α = 0.05
Table 1: Minimal sensitivity reporting of the reduced-form regression.
In our running example, the RV reveals that confounders explaining 0.67% of the residual variation both
of proximity and of (log) Earnings are already suﬃcient to make the reduced-form estimate statistically
insigniﬁcant. Further, the XRV and the R2
Y ∼Z|X show that, if we are not willing to impose constraints
on the partial R2 of confounders with the outcome, they need only explain 0.05% of the residual variation
instrument to “lose signiﬁcance,” or 0.18% to fully eliminating the point estimate. To aid users in making
plausibility judgments, the note of Table 1 provides the maximum strength of unobserved confounding if it
were as strong as SMSA (an indicator variable for whether the individual lived in a metropolitan region)
along with the bias-adjusted critical value for a confounder with such strength, t† max
α,df −1,R2 = 2.55. Since
the observed t-value (2.33) is less than the adjusted critical threshold of 2.55, this immediately reveals
that confounding as strong as SMSA (e.g.
residual geographic confounding) is suﬃciently strong to be
problematic.
Beyond the results of Table 1, researchers can also explore sensitivity contour plots of the t-value for
testing the null hypothesis of zero eﬀect, while showing diﬀerent bounds on strength of confounding, under
diﬀerent assumptions of how they compare to the observed variables. This is shown in Figure 1a. The
12
Partial R2 of confounder(s) with the instrument
Partial R2 of confounder(s) with the outcome
 −2 
 −1 
 0 
 1 
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
 1.961 
Unadjusted
(2.3)
1x smsa
(1.722)
1x black
(1.722)
(a) Sensitivity contours of the reduced form.
Partial R2 of confounder(s) with the instrument
Partial R2 of confounder(s) with the treatment
 0 
 1 
 3 
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
 1.961 
Unadjusted
(3.6)
2x black
(2.786)
2x smsa
(3.014)
(b) Sensitivity contours of the ﬁrst stage.
Figure 1: Sensitivity contour plots of the reduced form and ﬁrst stage.
horizontal axis describes the partial R2 of the confounder with the instrument whereas the vertical axis
describes the partial R2 of the confounder with the outcome.
The contour lines show the t-value one
would have obtained, had a confounder with such postulated strength been included in the reduced-form
regression. The red dashed line shows the statistical signiﬁcance threshold, and the red diamonds places
bounds on strength of confounding as strong as Black (an indicator for race) and, again, SMSA. As we can
see, confounders as strong as either Black or SMSA are suﬃcient to bring the reduced form, and hence also
the IV estimate, to a region which is not statistically diﬀerent from zero. Since it is not very diﬃcult to
imagine residual confounders as strong or stronger than those (e.g., parental income, ﬁner grained geographic
location, etc), these results for the reduced form already call into question the reliability of the instrumental
variable estimate.
H.2
Minimal reporting and sensitivity contours of the ﬁrst stage
Table 2 performs the same sensitivity exercises for the regression of Education (treatment) on Proximity
(instrument).
As expected, the association of proximity to college with years of education is stronger
than its association with earnings. This is reﬂected in the robustness statistics, which are slightly higher
(R2
D∼Z|X = 0.44%, XRVq∗,α = 0.31% and RVq∗,α = 3.02%). Confounding as strong as SMSA would not be
suﬃciently strong to bring the ﬁrst-stage estimate to a region where it is not statistically diﬀerent than zero.
Treatment: Education (years)
Instrument
Estimate
Std. Error
t-value
R2
D∼Z|X
XRVq∗,α
RVq∗,α
Proximity
0.32
0.088
3.64
0.44%
0.31%
3.02%
Bound (1x SMSA): R2
D∼W |Z,X = 0.5%, R2
Z∼W |X = 0.6%, t† max
α,df −1,R2 = 2.26
Note: df = 2994,
q∗= 1,
α = 0.05
Table 2: Minimal sensitivity reporting of the ﬁrst-stage regression.
Figure 1b supplements those analysis with the sensitivity contour plot for the t-value of the ﬁrst-stage
regression. Here the horizontal axis still describes the partial R2 of the confounder with the instrument,
13
but now the vertical axis describes the partial R2 of the confounder with the treatment. The plot reveals
that, contrary to the reduced form, the ﬁrst stage survives confounding once or twice as strong as Black or
SMSA.
I
Data on the use of sensitivity for IV
We collected data from all papers published in the American Economic Review during the year of 2020. If
the paper performed an instrumental variable analysis, even if it was not the main analysis of the paper, we
coded this as a paper using IV. Of this subset, we then checked whether the paper performed or mentioned
any type sensitivity analysis against violations of the exclusion or independence restrictions.
J
Connections to Frost (1979)
Here we brieﬂy discuss the connection of our OVB formula with that of Frost (1979). Using our notation,
Frost’s formula can be written as:
|λ −λr| = |γ|
q
R2
Z∼W|X × sd(W ⊥X)
sd(D⊥X) .
Notice that Frost’s formula has three sensitivity parameters related to the omitted variable W: (1) the
regression coeﬃcient of W in the long regression of the outcome γ; (2) the residual standard deviation of
W after adjusting for the remaining covariates; and (3) the partial correlation of W with the independent
variable of interest.
This parameterization has some shortcomings for sensitivity analysis. For instance, these three sensitivity
parameters are not variation independent. That is, ﬁxing
q
R2
Z∼W|X constrains the feasible region of the
product |γ| × sd(W ⊥X), which is now upper bounded by
 
1
q
1−R2
Z∼W |X
× sd(Y ⊥Z,X)
sd(D⊥X)
!
. Thus, for instance,
a naive use of Frost’s formula could lead to bounds larger than they need to be. Moreover, for the same
reason, Frost’s parameterization does not immediately reveal that bounding R2
Z∼W|X alone is suﬃcient to
bounds the bias, a key component for deriving some of the robustness metrics we propose in the paper, such
as the XRV.
K
Connections to over-identiﬁcation tests
Our focus in this paper is on the just-identiﬁed case with one instrument and one treatment. The presence
of multiple putative instruments, however, can be used to perform test instrument validity, provisional on
the condition that at least some of the instruments are valid. Here we discuss some connections between
over-identiﬁcation tests and our proposal for sensitivity analysis.
First, if a researcher performs an over-identiﬁcation test, and this test rejects that all instruments are
valid, then this would provide a very compelling justiﬁcation for running the sensitivity analysis of the type
we propose in this paper—the data itself already points out that some invalid instruments must be present,
and, therefore, result should not be taken at face value. We also note, however, that failing to reject that
the instruments are valid does not mean the instruments are indeed valid, and unobserved confounding can
still be a concern.
Another potential connection with our approach is that it may be possible to extend our sensitivity
analysis to perform over-identiﬁcation tests not to assess the exact validity of multiple instruments, but to
assess whether multiple instruments are all approximately valid, within certain bounds. We leave further
examination of sensitivity analysis with multiple instruments to future work.
14
L
Supplementary Tables and Figures
Z
D
Y
X
(a)
Z
D
W
Y
X
(b)
Z
D
W
Y
X
(c)
Figure 2: Causal diagrams illustrating traditional IV assumptions. Directed arrows, such as X →Y , denote a possible
direct causal eﬀect of X on Y . Bidirected arrows, such as D ↔Y , stand for latent common causes between D and Y .
In Figure 2a, X is suﬃcient for rendering Z a valid instrumental variable. In Figures 2b and 2c, however, W is also
needed to render Z a valid IV, either because it confounds the instrument-outcome relationship (Fig. 2b) or because
it is a side-eﬀect of the instrument aﬀecting the outcome other than through its eﬀect of on the treatment (Fig. 2c).
In practice, all these violations will be happening simultaneously.
Dependent variable:
Education
Earnings (log)
FS
RF
OLS
IV
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Proximity
0.320∗∗∗
0.042∗∗
(0.088)
(0.018)
Education
0.075∗∗∗
0.132∗∗
(0.003)
(0.055)
Black
−0.936∗∗∗
−0.270∗∗∗
−0.199∗∗∗
−0.147∗∗∗
(0.094)
(0.019)
(0.018)
(0.054)
SMSA
0.402∗∗∗
0.165∗∗∗
0.136∗∗∗
0.112∗∗∗
(0.105)
(0.022)
(0.020)
(0.032)
Other covariates
yes
yes
yes
yes
Observations
3,010
3,010
3,010
3,010
R2
0.477
0.195
0.300
0.238
Note:
∗p<0.1; ∗∗p<0.05; ∗∗∗p<0.01
Table 3: Results of Card (1993). Columns show estimates and standard errors (in parenthesis) of the First Stage
(FS), Reduced Form (RF), Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) and Indirect Least Squares/Two-Stage Least Squares (IV).
Black is an indicator of race; SMSA an indicator for whether the individual lived in a metropolitan area. Following
Card (1993), other covariates include age, regional indicators, experience and experience squared.
15
R2
Z∼W |X/R2
Y ∼W |Z,X
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
0.4
0.45
0.5
0.55
0.6
0.65
0.7
0.75
0.8
0.85
0.9
0.95
0.05
3.58
4.20
4.66
5.04
5.37
5.66
5.91
6.15
6.36
6.55
6.73
6.89
7.04
7.17
7.29
7.39
7.47
7.52
7.52
0.1
4.37
5.29
5.99
6.56
7.06
7.50
7.90
8.27
8.60
8.91
9.20
9.47
9.72
9.95
10.16
10.35
10.52
10.65
10.74
0.15
5.04
6.22
7.10
7.84
8.48
9.05
9.57 10.05 10.49
10.90
11.28
11.63
11.97
12.28
12.57
12.83
13.07
13.27
13.42
0.2
5.67
7.08
8.14
9.03
9.80 10.49 11.12 11.70 12.23
12.73
13.20
13.63
14.04
14.43
14.79
15.12
15.43
15.69
15.90
0.25
6.29
7.92
9.16 10.19 11.09 11.89 12.63 13.30 13.93
14.51
15.06
15.57
16.06
16.51
16.94
17.34
17.71
18.04
18.30
0.3
6.91
8.77 10.18 11.35 12.38 13.30 14.14 14.91 15.62
16.30
16.92
17.52
18.08
18.60
19.10
19.56
19.99
20.38
20.70
0.35
7.56
9.64 11.23 12.55 13.71 14.74 15.69 16.56 17.37
18.13
18.84
19.51
20.15
20.75
21.31
21.84
22.34
22.78
23.16
0.4
8.24 10.57 12.33 13.81 15.10 16.26 17.32 18.29 19.20
20.05
20.85
21.60
22.31
22.99
23.63
24.23
24.78
25.30
25.73
0.45
8.97 11.55 13.51 15.16 16.59 17.88 19.05 20.14 21.15
22.09
22.99
23.83
24.62
25.38
26.09
26.77
27.40
27.97
28.47
0.5
9.77 12.63 14.80 16.62 18.21 19.64 20.94 22.15 23.27
24.32
25.31
26.25
27.13
27.98
28.77
29.52
30.23
30.88
31.44
0.55
10.67 13.83 16.23 18.25 20.01 21.59 23.04 24.37 25.62
26.79
27.89
28.93
29.91
30.85
31.74
32.58
33.36
34.09
34.73
0.6
11.68 15.19 17.86 20.09 22.05 23.81 25.41 26.90 28.28
29.58
30.80
31.96
33.06
34.10
35.09
36.03
36.91
37.72
38.44
0.65
12.87 16.77 19.74 22.24 24.42 26.38 28.17 29.82 31.37
32.82
34.18
35.48
36.70
37.87
38.98
40.03
41.01
41.93
42.74
0.7
14.29 18.67 22.01 24.80 27.25 29.45 31.46 33.32 35.06
36.69
38.22
39.68
41.06
42.37
43.62
44.81
45.92
46.96
47.88
0.75
16.07 21.04 24.83 28.00 30.78 33.28 35.56 37.68 39.65
41.50
43.25
44.91
46.48
47.97
49.39
50.74
52.02
53.20
54.26
0.8
18.41 24.16 28.54 32.20 35.42 38.31 40.95 43.39 45.68
47.82
49.84
51.76
53.58
55.32
56.96
58.53
60.01
61.39
62.62
0.85
21.77 28.61 33.82 38.19 42.02 45.47 48.61 51.53 54.25
56.81
59.22
61.51
63.68
65.75
67.72
69.59
71.36
73.01
74.50
0.9
27.25 35.88 42.46 47.97 52.80 57.15 61.12 64.80 68.24
71.46
74.51
77.40
80.15
82.77
85.26
87.62
89.86
91.96
93.85
0.95
39.37 51.90 61.47 69.48 76.51 82.83 88.61 93.97 98.97 103.67 108.11 112.31 116.32 120.13 123.76 127.21 130.48 133.54 136.31
Table 4: Bias adjusted critical values: df = 1, 000
16
References
Anderson, T. W. and Rubin, H. (1949). Estimation of the parameters of a single equation in a complete
system of stochastic equations. The Annals of Mathematical Statistics, 20(1):46–63.
Card, D. (1993). Using geographic variation in college proximity to estimate the return to schooling. Tech-
nical report, National Bureau of Economic Research.
Cinelli, C. and Hazlett, C. (2020). Making sense of sensitivity: Extending omitted variable bias. Journal of
the Royal Statistical Society: Series B (Statistical Methodology).
Conley, T. G., Hansen, C. B., and Rossi, P. E. (2012). Plausibly exogenous. Review of Economics and
Statistics, 94(1):260–272.
Frost, P. A. (1979). Proxy variables and speciﬁcation bias. The review of economics and Statistics, pages
323–325.
Mehlum, H. (2020). The polar conﬁdence curve for a ratio. Econometric Reviews, 39(3):234–243.
Wang, X., Jiang, Y., Zhang, N. R., and Small, D. S. (2018). Sensitivity analysis and power for instrumental
variable studies. Biometrics.
17
Replication File - An Omitted Variable Bias Framework for
Sensitivity Analysis of Instrumental Variables
Carlos Cinelli and Chad Hazlett
2024-11-28
Main Text
Package and data
First install the package from GitHub, available at https://github.com/carloscinelli/iv.sensemakr.
# loads package
library(iv.sensemakr)
# loads and prepare dataset
data("card")
y <- card$lwage
# outcome
d <- card$educ
# treatment
z <- card$nearc4 # instrument
x <- model.matrix( ~ exper + expersq + black + south + smsa + reg661 + reg662 + reg663 +
reg664 + reg665+ reg666 + reg667 + reg668 + smsa66,
data = card) # covariates
Anderson-Rubin regression
Fitting the Anderson-Rubin regression.
# fits IV model
card.fit <- iv_fit(y,d,z,x)
card.fit
##
## Instrumental Variable Estimation
## (Anderson-Rubin Approach)
## =============================================
## IV Estimates:
##
Coef. Estimate: 0.132
##
t-value: 2.33
##
p-value: 0.02
##
Conf. Interval: [0.025, 0.285]
## Note: H0 = 0, alpha = 0.05, df = 2994.
## =============================================
## See summary for first stage and reduced form.
1
Sensitivity Analysis
Sensitivity analysis results in the main text.
# runs sensitivity analysis
card.sens <- sensemakr(card.fit, benchmark_covariates = c("black", "smsa"))
# sensitivity statistics
all.stats <- sensitivity_stats(card.sens,parm = c("iv", "fs", "rf"))
round(all.stats, 4)[1:6]
##
estimate
lwr
upr t.value xrv_qa
rv_qa
## iv
0.1315 0.0248 0.2848
2.3271 0.0005 0.0067
## fs
0.3199 0.1476 0.4922
3.6408 0.0031 0.0302
## rf
0.0421 0.0066 0.0775
2.3271 0.0005 0.0067
# benchmarking
iv.bounds <- card.sens$bounds$iv
iv.bounds[-1] <- round(iv.bounds[-1], 4)
iv.bounds
##
bound_label r2zw.x r2y0w.zx
lwr
upr t.dagger
## 1
1x black 0.0022
0.0750 -0.0212 0.4019
2.5942
## 2
1x smsa 0.0064
0.0202 -0.0192 0.3958
2.5710
# sensitivity contour plot for AR
plot(card.sens, lim = 0.08)
Lower Limit CI
Partial R2 of omitted variable(s) with the instrument
Partial R2 of omitted variable(s) with the pot. outcome
 −0.112 
 −0.06 
 −0.022 
 0 
 0.022 
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
 −Inf 
Unadjusted
(0.025)
1x black
(−0.0212)
1x smsa
(−0.0192)
Upper Limit CI
Partial R2 of omitted variable(s) with the instrument
Partial R2 of omitted variable(s) with the pot. outcome
 0.291 
 0.405 
 0.555 
 0.932 
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
 Inf 
Unadjusted
(0.28)
1x black
(0.4019)
1x smsa
(0.3958)
2
Appendix – sensitivity of the Reduced Form
# sensitivity statistics
round(sensitivity_stats(card.sens, parm = "rf")[1:6], 4)
##
estimate
lwr
upr t.value xrv_qa
rv_qa
## rf
0.0421 0.0066 0.0775
2.3271 0.0005 0.0067
# benchmarking
rf.bounds <- card.sens$bounds$rf
rf.bounds[-1] <- round(rf.bounds[-1], 4)
rf.bounds
##
bound_label r2zw.x r2yw.zx
lwr
upr t.dagger
## 1
1x black 0.0022
0.0657 -0.0042 0.0883
2.5583
## 2
1x smsa 0.0064
0.0197 -0.0043 0.0884
2.5645
# sensitivity contour plot for RF
plot(card.sens, parm = "rf", sensitivity.of = "t-value", lim = 0.08, kz = 1, ky = 1)
Partial R2 of omitted variable(s) with the instrument
Partial R2 of omitted variable(s) with the outcome
 −2 
 −1.5 
 −1 
 −0.5 
 0 
 0.5 
 1 
 1.5 
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
 1.961 
Observed
(2.327)
1x black
(1.722)
1x smsa
(1.722)
3
Appendix – sensitivity of the First Stage
# sensitivity statistics
round(sensitivity_stats(card.sens, parm = "fs")[1:6], 4)
##
estimate
lwr
upr t.value xrv_qa
rv_qa
## fs
0.3199 0.1476 0.4922
3.6408 0.0031 0.0302
# benchmarking
fs.bounds <- card.sens$bounds$fs
fs.bounds[-1] <- round(fs.bounds[-1], 4)
fs.bounds
##
bound_label r2zw.x r2dw.zx
lwr
upr t.dagger
## 1
1x black 0.0022
0.0334 0.1089 0.5309
2.4014
## 2
1x smsa 0.0064
0.0050 0.1202 0.5195
2.2723
# sensitivity contour plot for FS
plot(card.sens, parm = "fs", sensitivity.of = "t-value", lim = 0.08, kz = 2, kd = 2)
Partial R2 of omitted variable(s) with the instrument
Partial R2 of omitted variable(s) with the treatment
 −0.5 
 0 
 0.5 
 1 
 1.5 
 2.5 
 3 
 3.5 
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
 1.961 
Observed
(3.641)
2x black
(2.786)
2x smsa
(3.014)
4
