
--- PAGE 1 ---
Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers: Implications for Stock Market
Efficiency
Narasimhan Jegadeesh; Sheridan Titman
The Journal of Finance, Vol. 48, No. 1. (Mar., 1993), pp. 65-91.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1082%28199303%2948%3A1%3C65%3ARTBWAS%3E2.0.CO%3B2-Y
The Journal of Finance is currently published by American Finance Association.
Your use of the JSTOR archive indicates your acceptance of JSTOR's Terms and Conditions of Use, available at
http://www.jstor.org/about/terms.html. JSTOR's Terms and Conditions of Use provides, in part, that unless you have obtained
prior permission, you may not download an entire issue of a journal or multiple copies of articles, and you may use content in
the JSTOR archive only for your personal, non-commercial use.
Please contact the publisher regarding any further use of this work. Publisher contact information may be obtained at
http://www.jstor.org/journals/afina.html.
Each copy of any part of a JSTOR transmission must contain the same copyright notice that appears on the screen or printed
page of such transmission.
The JSTOR Archive is a trusted digital repository providing for long-term preservation and access to leading academic
journals and scholarly literature from around the world. The Archive is supported by libraries, scholarly societies, publishers,
and foundations. It is an initiative of JSTOR, a not-for-profit organization with a mission to help the scholarly community take
advantage of advances in technology. For more information regarding JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org.
http://www.jstor.org
Sun Jan 27 17:36:44 2008
--- PAGE 2 ---
THE JOIJKNAL OF FINANCE VOL. XLVIII, NO. 1 MARCH 1993 
Returns to Buying Winners and Selling 
Losers:Implications for 
Stock Market Efficiency 
NARASIMHAN JEGADEESH and SHERIDAN TITMAN* 
ABSTRACT 
This paper documents that strategies which buy stocks that have performed well in 
the past and sell stocks that have performed poorly in the past generate significant 
positive returns over 3- to 12-month holding periods. We find that the profitability 
of these strategies are not due to their systematic risk or to delayed stock price 
reactions to common factors. However, part of the abnormal returns generated in 
the first year after portfolio formation dissipates in the following two years. A 
similar pattern of returns around the earnings announcements of past winners and 
losers is also documented. 
A POPULAR VIEW HELD by many journalists, psychologists, and economists is 
that individuals tend to overreact to information.' A direct extension of this 
view, suggested by De Bondt and Thaler (1985, 19871, is that stock prices also 
overreact to information, suggesting that contrarian strategies (buying past 
losers and selling past winners) achieve abnormal returns. De Bondt and 
Thaler (1985) show that over 3- to 5-year holding periods stocks that per-
formed poorly over the previous 3 to 5 years achieve higher returns than 
stocks that performed well over the same period. However, the interpretation 
of the De Bondt and Thaler results are still being debated. Some have argued 
that the De Bondt and Thaler results can be explained by the systematic risk 
of their contrarian portfolios and the size effect."n addition, since the 
long-term losers outperform the long-term winners only in Januaries, it is 
unclear whether their results can be attributed to overreaction. 
*Jegadeesh is from the Anderson Graduate School of Management, UCLA. Titman is from 
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology and the Anderson Graduate School of Manage-
ment, UCLA. We would like to thank Kent Daniel, Ravi Jagannathan, Richard Roll, Hans Stoll, 
Ren6 Stulz, and two referees. We also thank participants of'theJohnson Symposium held at the 
University of Wisconsin at Madison and seminar participants at Harvard, SMU, UBC, UCLA, 
Penn State, University of Michigan, University of Minnesota, and York University for helpful 
comments, and Juan Siu and Kwan Ho Kim for excellent research assistance. 
'see for example, the academic papers by Kahneman and Tversky (1982), De Bondt and 
Thaler (1985) and Shiller (1981). 
'see for example, Chan (19881, Ball and Kothari (1989), and Zarowin (1990). For an alternate 
view, see the recent paper by Chopra, Lakonishok, and Ritter (1992). 
--- PAGE 3 ---
66 The Journal of Finance 
More recent papers by Jegadeesh (1990) and Lehmann (1990) provide 
evidence of shorter-term return reversals. These papers show that contrarian 
strategies that select stocks based on their returns in the previous week or 
month generate significant abnormal returns. However, since these strate- 
gies are transaction intensive and are based on short-term price movements, 
their apparent success may reflect the presence of short-term price pressure 
or a lack of liquidity in the market rather than overreaction. Jegadeesh and 
Titman (1991) provide evidence on the relation between short-term return 
reversals and bid-ask spreads that supports this interpretation. In addition, 
Lo and MacKinlay (1990) argue that a large part of the abnormal returns 
documented by Jegadeesh and Lehmann is attributable to a delayed stock 
price reaction to common factors rather than to overreaction. 
Although contrarian strategies have received a lot of attention in the recent 
academic literature, the early literature on market efficiency focused on 
relative strength strategies that buy past winners and sell past losers. Most 
notably, Levy (1967) claims that a trading rule that buys stocks with current 
prices that are substantially higher than their average prices over the past 27 
weeks realizes significant abnormal returns. Jensen and Bennington (1970), 
however, point out that Levy had come up with his trading rule after 
examining 68 different trading rules in his dissertation and because of this 
express skepticism about his conclusions. Jensen and Rennington analyze the 
profitability of Levy's trading rule over a long time period that was, for the 
most part, outside Levy's original sample period. They find that in their 
sample period Levy's trading rule does not outperform a buy and hold 
strategy and hence attribute Levy's result to a selection bias. 
Although the current academic debate has focused on contrarian rather 
than relative strength trading rules, a number of practitioners still use 
relative strength as one of their stock selection criteria. For example, a 
majority of the mutual funds examined by Grinblatt and Titman (1989, 1991) 
show a tendency to buy stocks that have increased in price over the previous 
quarter. In addition, the Value Line rankings are known to be based in large 
part on past relative strength. The success of many of the mutual funds in 
the Grinblatt and Titman sample and the predictive power of Value Line 
rankings (see Copeland and Mayers (1982) and Stickel (1985)) provide sug- 
gestive evidence that the relative strength strategies may generate abnormal 
returns. 
How can we reconcile the success of Value Line rankings and the mutual 
funds that use relative strength rules with the current academic literature 
that suggests that the opposite strategy generates abnormal returns? One 
possibility is that the abnormal returns realized by these practitioners are 
either spurious or are unrelated to their tendencies to buy past winners. A 
second possibility is that the discrepancy is due to the difference between the 
time horizons used in the trading rules examined in the recent academic 
papers and those used in practice. For instance, the above cited evidence 
favoring contrarian strategies focuses on trading strategies based on either 
--- PAGE 4 ---
Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers 67 
very short-term return reversals (1week or 1 month), or very long-term 
return reversals (3 to 5 years). However, anecdotal evidence suggests that 
practitioners who use relative strength rules base their selections on price 
movements over the past 3 to 12 month^.^ This paper provides an analysis of 
relative strength trading strategies over 3- to 12-month horizons. Our analy- 
sis of NYSE and AMEX stocks documents significant profits in the 1965 to 
1989 sample period for each of the relative strength strategies examined. We 
provide a decomposition of these profits into different sources and develop 
tests that allow us to evaluate their relative importance. The results of these 
tests indicate that the profits are not due to the systematic risk of the trading 
strategies. In addition, the evidence indicates that the profits cannot be 
attributed to a lead-lag effect resulting from delayed stock price reactions to 
information about a common factor similar to that proposed by Lo and 
MacKmlay (1990). The evidence is, however, consistent with delayed price 
reactions to firm-specific information. 
Further tests suggest that part of the predictable price changes that occur 
during these 3- to 12-month holding periods may not be permanent. The 
stocks included in the relative strength portfolios experience negative abnor- 
mal returns starting around 12 months after the formation date and continu- 
ing up to the thirty-first month. For example, the portfolio formed on the 
basis of returns realized in the past 6 months generates an average cumula- 
tive return of 9.5% over the next 12 months but loses more than half of this 
return in the following 24 months. 
Our analysis of stock returns around earnings announcement dates sug- 
gests a similar bias in market expectations. We find that past winners realize 
consistently higher returns around their earnings announcements in the 7 
months following the portfolio formation date than do past losers. However, 
in each of the following 13 months past losers realize higher returns than 
past winners around earnings announcements. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section I describes the 
trading strategies that we examine and Section I1 documents their excess 
returns. Section I11 provides a decomposition of the profits from relative 
strength strategies and evaluates the relative importance of the different 
components. Section IV documents these returns in subsamples stratified on 
the basis of ex ante beta and firm size and Section V measures these profits 
across calendar months and over 5-year subperiods. The longer term perfor- 
mance of the stocks included in the relative strength portfolios is examined in 
Section VI and Section VII back tests the strategy over the 1927 to 1964 
3~or instance, one of the inputs used by Value Line to assign a timeliness rank for each stock 
is a price momentum factor computed based on the stock's past 3- to 12-month returns. Value 
Line reports that the price momentum factor is computed by "dividing the stock's latest 10-week 
average relative price by its 52-week average relative price." These timeliness ranks, according 
to Value Line, are "designed to discriminate among stocks on the basis of relative price 
performance over the next 6 to 12 months" (see Bernard (19841, pp. 52-53). 
--- PAGE 5 ---
The Journal of Finance 
period. Section VIII examines the returns of past winners and past losers 
around earnings announcement dates and Section IX concludes the paper. 
I. Trading Strategies 
If stock prices either overreact or underreact to information, then profitable 
trading strategies that select stocks based on their past returns will exist. 
This study investigates the efficiency of the stock market by examining the 
profitability of a number of these strategies. The strategies we consider select 
stocks based on their returns over the past 1, 2, 3, or 4 quarters. We also 
consider holding periods that vary from 1to 4 quarters. This gives a total of 
16 strategies. In addition, we examine a second set of 16 strategies that skip 
a week between the portfolio formation period and the holding period. By 
skipping a week, we avoid some of the bid-ask spread, price pressure, and 
lagged reaction effects that underlie the evidence documented in Jegadeesh 
(1990) and Lehmann (1990). 
To increase the power of our tests, the strategies we examine include 
portfolios with overlapping holding periods. Therefore, in any given month t, 
the strategies hold a series of portfolios that are selected in the current 
month as well as in the previous K - 1 months, where K is the holding 
period. Specifically, a strategy that selects stocks on the basis of returns over 
the past J months and holds them for K months (we will refer to this as a 
J-month/K-month strategy) is constructed as follows: At the beginning of 
each month t the securities are ranked in ascending order on the basis of 
their returns in the past J months. Based on these rankings, ten decile 
portfolios are formed that equally weight the stocks contained in the top 
decile, the second decile, and so on. The top decile portfolio is called the 
"losers" decile and the bottom decile is called the "winners" decile. In each 
month t, the strategy buys the winner portfolio and sells the loser portfolio, 
holding this position for K months. In addition, the strategy closes out the 
position initiated in month t -K. Hence, under this trading strategy we 
1
I 
revise the weights on -of the securities in the entire portfolio in any given K 
month and carry over the rest from the previous month. 
The profits of the above strategies were calculated for both a series of buy 
and hold portfolios and a series of portfolios that were rebalanced monthly to 
maintain equal weights. Since the returns for these two strategies were very 
similar (the buy and hold strategies yielded slightly higher returns) we 
present only the rebalanced returns which are also used in the event study 
presented in Section VI. 
11. The Returns of Relative Strength Portfolios 
This section documents the returns of the portfolio strategies described in 
the last section over the 1965 to 1989 period using data from the CRSP daily 
--- PAGE 6 ---
69 Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers 
returns file.4 All stocks with available returns data in the J months preced- 
ing the portfolio formation date are included in the sample from which the 
buy and sell portfolios are constructed. 
Table I reports the average returns of the different buy and sell portfolios 
as well as the zero-cost, winners minus losers portfolio, for the 32 strategies 
described above. The returns of all the zero-cost portfolios (i.e., the ret.urns 
per dollar long in this portfolio) are positive. All these returns are statisti- 
cally significant except for the 3-month/3-month strategy that does not skip 
a week. Many of the individual t-statistics are sufficiently large to be 
significant even after considering the fact that we have conducted 32 sepa- 
rate tests. The probability of obtaining a single t-statistic as large as 4.28 
(obtained with the 12-month/3-month strategy that skips a week) with 32 
observations is less than 0.0006, as given by the Bonferroni inequality." 
The most successful zero-cost strategy selects stocks based on their returns 
over the previous 12 months and then holds the portfolio for 3 months. This 
strategy yields 1.31% per month (shown in Panel A) when there is no time 
lag between the portfolio formation period and the holding period and it 
yields 1.49% per month (shown in Panel B) when there is a 1-week lag 
between the formation period and the holding period.6 The 6-month forma- 
tion period produces returns of about 1%per month regardless of the holding 
period. These holding period returns are slightly higher when there is a 
1-week lag between the formation period and the holding period (Panel B) 
than when the formation and holding periods are contiguous (Panel A). 
Having established that the relative strength strategies are on average 
quite profitable, we now examine one specific strategy in detail, the 6-
month/6-month strategy that does not skip a week between the portfolio 
formation period and the holding period. The results for this strategy are 
representative of the results for the other strategies. 
111. Sources of Relative Strength Profits 
This section presents two simple return-generating models that allow us to 
decompose the excess returns documented in the last section and identify the 
important sources of relative strength profits. The first model allows for 
factor-mimicking portfolio returns to be serially correlated but requires indi- 
4~he latest version of the CRSP daily returns file at the time this study was initiated covers 
the July 1962 to December 1989 period. Monthly returns were obtained by compounding the 
daily returns recorded in this data set. Since the 12-month/l2-month strategy considered here 
requires lagged returns data over 23 months the first f~l1'~alendar year for which we could 
examine portfolio returns is 1965. 
5~he Bonferroni inequality provides a bound for the probability of observing a t-statistic of a 
certain magnitude with N tests that are not necessarily independent. 
'~e Bondt and Thaler (1985) report 1-year holding period returns in their tables that are 
consistent with our findings here. However, they do not examine strategies based on 1-year 
horizons in any detail and based on their analysis of longer horizon strategies conclude that the 
market overreacts 
--- PAGE 7 ---
The Journal of Finance 
Table I 
Returns of Relative Strength Portfolios 
The relative strength portfolios are formed based on J-month lagged returns and held for K 
months. The values of J and K for the different strategies are indicated in the first column and 
row, respectively. The stocks are ranked in ascending order on the basis of J-month lagged 
returns and an equally weighted portfolio of stocks in the lowest past return decile is the sell 
portfolio and an equally weighted portfolio of the stocks in the highest return decile is the buy 
portfolio. The average monthly returns of these portfolios are presented in this table. The 
relative strength portfolios in Panel A are formed immediately after the lagged returns are 
measured for the purpose of portfolio formation. The relative strength portfolios in Panel B are 
formed 1 week after the lagged returns used for forming these portfolios are measured. The 
t-statistics are reported in parentheses. The sample period is January 1965 to December 1989. 
Panel A Panel B 
--- --- - .-- ----
J K= 3 6 9 12 K= 3 6 9 12 
3 Sell 
3 Buy 
3 Buy-sell 
6 Sell 
6 Buy 
6 Buy-sell 
9 Sell 
9 Buy 
9 Buy-sell 
12 Sell 
12 Buy 
12 Buy-sell 
vidual stocks to react instantaneously to factor realizations. This model is 
used to decompose relative strength profits into two components relating to 
systematic risk, which would exist in an eff~cient market, and a third 
component relating to firm-specific returns, which would contribute to rela- 
tive strength profits only if the market were inefficient. The second return- 
generating model relaxes the assumption that stocks react instantaneously to 
the common factor. This model enables us to evaluate the possibility that the 
relative strength profits arise because of a lead-lag relationship in stock 
prices similar to that proposed by Lo and MacKinlay (1990) as a partial 
explanation for short horizon contrarian profits. 
--- PAGE 8 ---
Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers 
A. A Simple One-Factor Model 
Consider the following one-factor model describing stock return^:^ 
'it = ~1 + bc ft + 'it 7 
E(ft) = 0 
E(eit) = 0 
Cov(e,, , f,) = 0, Vi 
Cov(e,, ,e,, -,) = 0, Vi + j 
where p, is the unconditional expected return on security i, r,, is the 
return on security i, ft is the unconditional unexpected return on a factor- 
mimicking portfolio, el, is the firm-specific component of return at time t, and 
b, is the factor sensitivity of security i. For the 6-month/6-month strategy 
that we consider in the rest of this paper the length of a period is 6 months. 
The superior performance of the relative strength strategies documented in 
the last section implies that stocks that generate higher than average returns 
in one period also generate higher than average returns in the period that 
follows. In other words, these results imply that: 
and 
where a bar above a variable denotes its cross-sectional average. 
Therefore, 
The above cross-sectional covariance equals the expected profits from the 
zero-cost contrarian trading strategy examined by Lehmann (1990) and Lo 
and MacKinlay (1990) that weights stocks by their past returns less the past 
equally weighted index returns. This weighted relative strength strategy 
(WRSS) is closely related to our strategy. The WRSS yields a profit of 4.5% 
per dollar long semiannually (t-statistic = 2.99) and the correlation between 
the returns of this strategy and that of the trading strategy examined in the 
last section is 0.95. The equally weighted decile portfolios are used in most of 
our empirical tests since they provide relatively more information than the 
WRSS. However, as the following analysis demonstrates, the closely related 
WRSS provides a tractable framework for analytically examining the sources 
of relative strength profits and evaluating the relative importance of each of 
these sources. 
'our analysis in this subsection is similar to that in Jegadeesh (1987) and Lo and MacKinlay 
(1990). 
--- PAGE 9 ---
72 The Journal of Finance 
Given the one-factor model defined in (I), the WRSS profits given in 
expression (2) can be decomposed into the following three terms: 
where a: and ab2are the cross-sectional variances of expected returns and 
factor sensitivities respectively. 
The above decomposition suggests three potential sources of the relative 
strength profits. The first term in this expression is the cross-sectional 
dispersion in expected returns. Intuitively, since realized returns contain a 
component related to expected returns, securities that experience relatively 
high returns in one period can be expected to have higher than average 
returns in the following period. The second term is related to the potential to 
time the factor. If the factor portfolio returns exhibit positive serial correla- 
tion, the relative strength strategy will tend to pick stocks with high b's 
when the conditional expectation of the factor portfolio return is high. As the 
above expression demonstrates, the extent to which relative strength strate- 
gies generate profits because of the serial correlation of the factor portfolio 
return is a function of the cross-sectional variance of the b's. The last term in 
the above expression is the average serial covariance of the idiosyncratic 
components of security returns. 
To assess whether the existence of relative strength profits imply market 
inefficiency, it is important to identify the sources of the profits. If the profits 
are due to either the first or the second term in expression (3) they may be 
attributed to compensation for bearing systematic risk and need not be an 
indication of market inefficiency. However, if the superior performance of the 
relative strength strategies is due to the third term, then the results would 
suggest market inefficiency. 
B. The Average Size and Beta of Relative Strength Portfolios 
This subsection considers the possibility that relative strength strategies 
systematically pick high-risk stocks and benefit from the first term in expres- 
sion (3). Table I1 reports estimates of the two most common indicators of 
systematic risk, the post-ranking betas of the ten 6-month/6-month relative 
strength portfolios and the average capitalizations of the stocks in these 
portfolios. The betas of the extreme past returns portfolios are higher than 
the average beta for the full sample. In addition, since the beta of the 
portfolio of past losers is higher than the beta of the portfolio of past winners, 
the beta of the zero-cost winners minus losers portfolio is negative. The 
average capitalizations of the stocks in the different portfolios show that the 
highest and the lowest past returns portfolios consist of smaller than average 
stocks, with the stocks in the losers portfolios being smaller than the stocks 
in the winners portfolio. This evidence suggests that the observed relative 
strength profits are not due to the first source of profits in expression (3). 
--- PAGE 10 ---
Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers 
Table I1 
Betas and Market Capitalization of Relative Strength 
Portfolios 
The relative strength portfolios are formed based on 6-month lagged returns and held for 6 
months. The stocks are ranked in ascending order on the basis of 6-month lagged returns. The 
equally weighted portfolio of stocks in the lowest past return decile is portfolio PI, the equally 
weighted portfolio of stocks in the next decile is portfolio P2, and so on. The betas with respect to 
the value-weighted index and the average market capitalizations of the stocks included in these 
portfolios are reported here. The sample period is January 1965 to December 1989. 
Average Market 
Beta Capitalization 
208.24 
480.07 
545.31 
618.85 
692.89 
702.51 
738.09 
758.87 
680.18 
495.13 
-
Additional evidence relating to the extent to which the dispersion in expected 
returns explains these profits is given in the next section. 
C. The Serial Covariance of 6-Month Returns 
This subsection examines the serial covariance of 6-month returns in order 
to assess the potential contribution of the second and third source of profits 
from our decomposition. Given the model expressed in (I),the serial covari- 
ance of an equally weighted portfolio of a large number of stocks is:' 
If the source of relative strength profits is the serial covariance of factor- 
related returns then, from the above expression, the in-sample serial covari- 
ance of the equally weighted index returns is required to be positive. How- 
ever, we find that the serial covariance of 6-month returns of the equally 
weighted index is negative (-0.0028) which, from the decomposition in 
expression (3), reduces the relative strength profits. This result indicates that 
the serial covariance of factor portfolio returns is unlikely to be the source of 
relative strength profits. 
8~he contribution of the serial covariances of e,, to the serial covariance of the equally 
weighted index becomes arbitrarily small as the number of stocks in the index becomes 
arbitrarily large. 
--- PAGE 11 ---
74 The Journal of Finance 
The estimates of the serial covariance of market model residuals for 
individual stocks are on average positive (0.0012). This evidence suggests 
that the relative strength profits may arise from stocks underreacting to 
firm-specific information. However, this evidence is also potentially consis- 
tent with an alternative model in which some stocks react with a lag to factor 
realizations, and we address this possibility in the next subsection. 
D. Lead-Lag Effects and Relative Strength Profits 
This subsection examines whether the relative strength profits can arise 
from a lead-lag relationship in stock prices similar to that considered in Lo 
and Macfinlay (1990). In contrast to the model previously presented, the 
model in this subsection assumes that stocks can either overreact or underre- 
act to the common factor but that the factor-mimicking portfolio returns are 
serially uncorrelated. 
Consider the following return generating process: 
'it l*., + bli ft + b2l ft- 1 + 'it 9 
where b,, and b,, are sensitivities to the contemporaneous and lagged factor 
realizations. b,, > 0 implies that stock i partly reacts to the factor with a lag 
as in Lo and MacKinlay and bZi < 0 implies that the stock overreacts to 
contemporaneous factor realizations and this overreaction gets corrected in 
the subsequent period. 
Given this model, the WRSS profits and the serial covariance of the equally 
weighted index are given by: 
and 
where 6, and 6, are cross-sectional averages of b,, and bZi, and, 
From expression (6), when 6 < 0 the lead-lag relation has a negative effect 
on the profitability of the WRSS, or equivalently, a positive effect on contrar- 
ian profits as in Lo and MacKinlay. However, when 6 > 0, the lead-lag 
relation will generate positive relative strength profits. In addition, if 6, is 
positive (negative) then the equally weighted index returns will be positively 
(negatively) serially correlated. This parameter, however, does not affect the 
profitability of the WRSS. 
If the lead-lag effect is an important source of relative strength profits, 
then the profit in any period will depend on the magnitude of factor portfolio 
--- PAGE 12 ---
75 Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers 
return in the previous period. Formally, consider the expected WRSS profits 
conditional on the past factor portfolio return: 
In contrast, under model (I), the conditional expectation of the WRSS 
profits given in expression (3), assuming that the factor portfolio returns are 
normally distributed, is: 
where p is the first order serial correlation of the factor portfolio returns. 
Expression (8) implies that if the relative strength profits come entirely 
from the lead-lag effect in stock returns, then the magnitude of the profits 
should be positively related to the squared factor portfolio return in the 
previous period. Intuitively, if inefficient stock price reactions to factor real- 
izations are important for the profitability of relative strength strategies, 
then large factor realizations should result in large WRSS profits. Alterna- 
tively, if the lead-lag effect does not contribute to the profits, then the 
observed negative serial covariance of the market index implies a negative 
relation between the magnitude of the WRSS profits and squared lagged 
factor portfolio returns. 
To examine which of these predictions best explains the time-series varia- 
tion in relative strength profits we estimate the following regression using 
the value-weighted index as a proxy for the factor portfolio: 
where r,,,, is the 6-month return of the relative strength portfolio formed in 
month t based on 6-month lagged returns and r,,, _,is the demeaned return 
on the value-weighted index in the months t - 6 through t - 1. The esti- 
mates of 0 and the corresponding autocorrelation-consistent t-statistic over 
the 1965 to 1989 sample period are -2.29 and -1.74 respectively. The 
estimates (t-statistic) of O in the first and second half of this sample period 
are -2.55 ( -2.65) and -1.83 (-2.52) respectively.g This reliably negative 
relation between the relative strength profits and lagged squared market 
returns is consistent with the model presented in the last subsection which 
assumed no lead-lag relationship and is inconsistent with the lead-lag model. 
This evidence indicates that the lead-lag effect is not an important source of 
relative strength profits and that the profitability of these strategies is 
therefore related to market underreaction to the firm-specific information. 
when this regression is fitted with the WRSS profits as the dependent variable, the estimate 
(t-statistic) of 0 over 1965-1989 is -1.77 (-3.56) and the corresponding statistics in the two 
equal subperiods are -1.94 ( -2.52) and -1.51 (- 2.53). 
--- PAGE 13 ---
The Journal of Finance 
IV. Profitability of Relative Strength Strategies Within 
Size- and Beta-Based Subsamples 
In this section we examine the profitability of the 6-month/6-month strat- 
egy within subsamples stratified on the basis of firm size and ex ante 
estimates of betas. Specifically, we implement this strategy on three size- 
based subsamples (small, medium, and large), and three beta-based subsam- 
ples (low-beta, medium-beta, And high-beta stocks). 
Measuring relative strength profits on size- and beta-based subsamples 
allows us to examine whether the profitability of the strategy is confined to 
any particular subsample of stocks. This analysis also provides additional 
evidence about the source of the observed relative strength profits. Since 
extant empirical evidence indicates that size and beta are related to both risk 
and expected returns,'' the cross-sectional dispersion in expected returns 
should be less within these subsamples than in the full sample. Therefore, if 
the relative strength strategy profits are related to differences in expected 
returns, they will be less when they are implemented on stocks within each 
subsample rather than on all the stocks in the sample. The profits need not 
be reduced in these subsamples, however, if the profits of the strategies are 
due to serial covariances in idiosyncratic returns. In fact, if the profits are not 
factor-related, the strategies are likely to generate higher returns when they 
are implemented within the small-firm subsample that consists of less ac- 
tively traded stocks and to generate lower returns when they are imple- 
mented within the large-firm subsample. 
Table I11 presents the average returns of the 6-month/6-month strategy 
for each of the subsamples. The results in Panel A indicate that the observed 
abnormal returns are of approximately the same magnitude when the strate- 
gies are implemented on the various subsamples of stocks as when they are 
implemented on the entire sample. They do, however, appear to be somewhat 
related to firm size and beta; for the zero-cost, winners minus losers portfolio, 
the subsample with the largest firms generates lower abnormal returns than 
the other two subsamples and the returns in the subsamples segmented by 
beta are monotonically increasing in beta.'' These findings indicate that the 
relative strength profits are not primarily due to the cross-sectional differ- 
ences in the systematic risk of the stocks in the sample. This evidence 
suggests that the profits are due to the serial correlation in the firm-specific 
component of returns. Furthermore, these results indicate that the profitabil- 
10 See Fama and MacBeth (1973) and Banz (1981). 
11One thing that is interesting to note here is that the average returns of low beta stocks are 
higher than the returns of the medium and high beta stocks. The average returns of stocks in the 
low, medium and high beta groups are 1.48%, 1.3996, and 1.16% respectively. These results, 
obtained with daily betas, should be contrasted with earlier findings of positive relations 
between monthly betas and average returns (e.g., Fama and MacBeth (1973)). The difference 
between our results using daily betas and the earlier results using monthly betas is due to the 
lower correlation between firm size and daily betas. Jegadeesh (1992) and Fama and French 
(1992) document that there is no reliable relation between monthly betas and average returns 
after controlling for firm size. 
--- PAGE 14 ---
Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers 7 7 
ity of the relative strength strategies is not confined to any particular 
subsample of stocks. 
As a further test Panel B of Table I11 presents the risk-adjusted returns of 
the relative strength strategies implemented within the size- and beta-based 
subsamples. The risk-adjusted returns are estimated as the intercepts from 
the following market model regression: 
where r,, is the return on the portfolio p, r,, is the return on the value- 
weighted index, and rft is the interest rate on 1-month Treasury Bill. 
Consistent with the negative betas of the zero-cost strategies, the abnormal 
returns of the relative strength strategies estimated from these regressions 
slightly exceed the raw returns given in Table I11 (Panel A). With the 
exception of the F-statistics becoming somewhat more significant, the find- 
ings in Table I11 (Panel B) are virtually the same as those reported in Table 
I11 (Panel A). 
An additional implication of the results in Table I11 (Panel B) is that the 
abnormal performance of the zero-cost portfolio is due to the buy side of the 
transaction rather than the sell side. The portfolio of past winners achieves 
significant positive abnormal return when the value-weighted index is used 
as the benchmark, while the abnormal return of the portfolio of past losers is 
not statistically significant with this benchmark. However, in unreported 
regressions that used the equally weighted index as the benchmark, the 
positive and the negative abnormal returns of the winners and losers port- 
folios were both statistically significant. The magnitude and statistical sig- 
nificance of the abnormal returns of the zero-cost, winners minus losers, 
portfolio (0.0115 with a t-statistic of 3.84) was slightly higher when the 
equally weighted index was used in place of the value-weighted index as the 
benchmark. 
From a practical investment perspective, it is important to assess whether 
the relative strength strategies will be profitable after accounting for transac- 
tion costs. On average, the relative strength trading rule results in a turnover 
of 84.8% semiannually.12 The risk-adjusted return of the relative strength 
trading rule after considering a 0.5% one-way transaction cost13 is 9.29% per 
year, which is reliably different from zero. The risk-adjusted returns after 
transaction costs are also significantly positive in each of the three size-based 
subsamples. 
12 
The average turnovers for the buy and sell sides of the zero-cost portfolio are 86.6% and 
83.1% respectively. These percentages are significantly less than the 90% turnover that would 
be expected if the transition probabilities are equal across the return decile portfolios. 
13Berkowitz, Logue, and Noser (1988) estimate one way transaction costs of 23 basis points for 
institutional investors, suggesting that the assumed transaction cost of 0.5% per trade is 
conservative. 
--- PAGE 15 ---
The Journal of Finance 
V. Subperiod Analysis 
A. Seasonal Patterns in Relative Strength Portfolio Returns 
This section tests for possible seasonal effects in the performance of the 
relative strength portfolios. Based on earlier papers, e.g., Roll (1983), we have 
reason to expect that the relative strength strategies will not be successful in 
the month of January. Table IV reports the average returns of the zero-cost 
portfolio in each calendar month and the results here support this conjecture. 
Table I11 
Returns of Size-Based and Beta-Based Relative Strength 
Portfolios 
The relative strength portfolios are formed based on 6-month lagged returns and held for 6 
months. The stocks are ranked in ascending order on the basis of 6-month lagged returns and the 
equally weighted portfolio of stocks in the lowest past return decile is portfolio PI, the equally 
weighted portfolio of stocks in the next decile is portfolio P2, and so on. Average monthly returns 
and excess returns of these portfolios and the returns of the relative strength portfolios formed 
using size-based and beta-based subsamples of securities are reported here. The subsample S1 
contains the smallest firms, S2 contains the medium-sized firms, and S3 contains the largest 
firms. The subsamples P,, P,, and P, contain the firms with the smallest, medium, and the 
largest Scholes-Williams betas estimated from the returns data in the calendar year prior to 
portfolio formation. The sample period is January 1965 to December 1989. 
Panel A: Average Monthly Returns 
All S1 S2 S3 PI Pz P3 
--- PAGE 16 ---
Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers 
Table 111-Continued 
Panel B: Excess Returns Using the CRSP Value-Weighted Index as the Market Proxy 
All S1 S2 S3 P1 Pz P3 
"The F-statistics are computed under the hypothesis that the returns on portfolios P1 through 
PI0 are jointly equal. 
b~he F-statistics are computed under the hypothesis that the abnormal returns on portfolios 
P1 through PI0 are jointly equal to zero. All F-statistics are significant at the 1percent level. 
The relative strength strategy loses about 7% on average in each January but 
achieves positive abnormal returns in each of the other months.14 The 
relative strength strategy realizes positive returns in 67% of the months, and 
71% of the months when January is excluded (see Table V). The average 
return in non-January months is 1.66% per month.15 Consistent with earlier 
papers, we find the magnitude of the negative January performance of the 
relative strength strategy to be inversely related to firm size. The negative 
141t is possible that at least part of the negative January returns of the relative strength 
strategy is due to a tendency of past winners to trade at the ask prices and past losers to sell at 
the bid prices at the close of the last trading day in the year. See Keim (1989) for a discussion of 
bid-ask spread biases and the January effect. 
15 If we were to use our priors about the performance of relative strength strategies in January 
and reverse the buy and sell portfolios in that calendar month (taking a long position in the past 
losers and a short position in the past winners in January only), then the abnormal returns 
would be even larger. Such a strategy generates close to 25% per year in abnormal returns, and 
loses money (about -0.7%) only in 1year out of the 25 years in the sample period. 
--- PAGE 17 ---
The Journal of Finance 
Table IV 
Returns on Size-Based Relative Strength Portfolios (P10-PI) 
by Calendar Months 
The relative strength portfolios are formed based on 6-month lagged returns and held for 6 
months. The stocks are ranked in ascending order on the basis of 6-month lagged returns and the 
equally weighted portfolio of stocks in the lowest past return decile is the sell portfolio and the 
equally weighted portfolio of stocks in the highest past return decile is the buy portfolio. This 
table reports the average monthly returns of the zero-cost, buy minus sell, portfolio in each 
calendar month. The average returns of the zero-cost portfolios formed using size-based subsam- 
ples of securities are also reported. The subsample S1 contains the smallest firms, S2 contains 
the medium-sized firms, and S3 contains the largest firms. The sample period is January 1965 to 
December 1989. 
All S1 S2 S3 
Jan 
Feb 
Mar. 
Apr. 
May 
June 
July 
Aug. 
Sept. 
Oct. 
Nov. 
Dec. 
aThe F-statistics are computed under the hypothesis that the returns on the zero-cost portfolio 
are jointly equal in all calendar months. 
b~he F-statistics are computed under the hypothesis that the returns on the zero-cost 
portfolios are jointly equal in the calendar months February through December. 
--- PAGE 18 ---
Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers 81 
Table V 
Proportion of Positive Returns of Relative Strength Portfolios 
by Calendar Months 
The relative strength portfolios are formed based on 6-month lagged returns and held for 6 
months. The stocks are ranked in ascending order on the basis of 6-month lagged returns and the 
equally weighted portfolio of stocks in the lowest past return decile is the sell portfolio and the 
equally weighted portfolio of stocks in the highest past return decile is the buy portfolio. This 
table reports the proportion of months when the average return of the zero-cost, buy minus sell, 
portfolio is positive. This proportion for the zero-cost portfolio formed within each size-based 
subsample of securities is also reported. The subsample S1 contains the smallest firms, S2 
contains the medium-sized firms, and S3 contains the largest firms. The sample period is 
January 1965 to December 1989. 
All S1 S2 S3 
Jan. 
Feb. 
Mar. 
Apr. 
May 
June 
July 
Aug. 
Sept. 
Oct. 
Nov. 
Dec. 
Feb.-Dec. 
All 
average relative strength return in January is not statistically significant for 
the subsample of large firms. 
The findings in Table IV suggest that there is also a seasonal pattern 
outside January. For example, the returns are fairly low in August and are 
particularly high in April, November, and December. The F-statistics re- 
ported in this table indicate that these monthly differences outside January 
are statistically significant for the whole sample as well as for the sample of 
medium-size firms. 
One of the interesting findings documented in this table is that the relative 
strength strategy produces positive returns in 96% (24 out of 25) of the 
Aprils. The large (3.33%) and consistently positive April returns may be 
related to the fact that corporations must transfer money to their pension 
funds prior to April 15 if the funds are to qualify for a tax deduction in the 
previous year. If these pension fund assets are primarily invested by portfolio 
managers who follow relative strength rules, then the winners portfolio may 
benefit from additional price pressure in this month. Similarly, the larger 
than average returns in November and December may in part be due to price 
pressure arising from portfolio managers selling their losers in these months 
for tax or window dressing reasons. 
--- PAGE 19 ---
The Journal of Finance 
Table VI 
Returns of Size-Based Relative Strength Portfolios: Subperiod 
Analysis 
The relative strength portfolios are formed based on 6-month lagged returns and held for 6 
months. The stocks are ranked in ascending order on the basis of 6-month lagged returns and the 
equally weighted portfolio of stocks in the lowest past return decile is the sell portfolio and the 
equally weighted portfolio of stocks in the highest past return decile is the buy portfolio. This 
table reports the average monthly leturns of the zero-cost, buy minus sell, portfolio within 5-year 
subperiods. The average returns of the zero-cost portfolios formed using size-based subsamples of 
securities within subperiods are also reported. The subsample S1 contains the smallest firms, S2 
contains the medium-sized firms, and S3 contains the largest firms. The sample period is 
January 1965 to December 1989. 
Sample Months 65-69 70-74 75-79 80-84 85-89 
AIl 
All Jan. 
Feb.-Dec. 
All 
S1 Jan. 
Feb.-Dec. 
All 
S2 Jan. 
Feb.-Dec. 
All 
S3 Jan. 
Feb.-Dec. 
B. Portfolio Returns Over 5-Year Subperiods 
This section documents the returns of the 6-month/6-month zero-cost 
strategy in each of the five 5-year subperiods in the 1965 to 1989 sample 
period. The evidence in Table VI indicates that the returns of the strategy, 
when implemented on the entire sample of stocks, produces average returns 
that are positive in all but one time period (1975 to 1979). An analysis of this 
strategy applied to size-based subsamples indicates that the negative returns 
--- PAGE 20 ---
83 Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers 
in the 1975 to 1979 time period is due primarily to the January returns of the 
small firms. The strategy yields positive profits in each of the 5-year time 
periods when it is implemented on the subsamples of large- and medium-size 
firms. In addition, the returns are positive in each of the 5-year periods as 
well as in each size-based subsample when the month of January is excluded. 
VI. Performance of Relative Strength Portfolios in Event 
Time 
In this section we examine the returns of the relative strength portfolio in 
event time. We track the average portfolio returns in each of the 36 months 
following the portfolio formation date. 
This event study analysis provides both additional insights about the 
riskiness of the strategy and about whether the profits are due to overreac- 
tion or underreaction. Significant positive returns in months beyond the 
liolding period would indicate that the zero-cost portfolio systematically 
selects stocks that have higher than average unconditional returns either 
because of their risk or for other reasons such as differential tax exposures. 
Significant negative returns of'the zero-cost portfolio in the months following 
the holding period would suggest that the price changes during the holding 
period are at least partially temporary. 
Table VII presents the average monthly and cumulative returns of the 
zero-cost portfolio in event time in the 36 months after the formation date.'" 
With the exception of month 1, the average return in each month is positive 
in the first year. The average return is negative in each month in year 2 as 
well as in the first half of year 3 and virtually zero thereafter. The cumulative 
returns reach a maximum of 9.5% at the end of 12 months but decline to 
about 4% by the end of month 36. 
The negative returns beyond month 12 indicate that the relative strength 
strategy does not tend to pick stocks that have high unconditional expected 
returns. The observed pattern of initially positive and then negative returns 
of the zero-cost portfolio also suggests that the observed price changes in the 
first 12 months after the formation period may not be permanent. Unfortu- 
nately, estimates of expected returns over 2-year periods are not very precise. 
As a result, the negative returns for the zero-cost portfolio in years 2 and 3 
are not statistically significant (t-statistic of -1.27). Similarly, since the 
abnormal return over the entire 36-month period is not statistically different 
from zero, we cannot rule out the possibility that the positive returns over the 
first 12 months is entirely temporary.17 
16 Since overlapping returns are used to calculate the cumulative returns in event time, the 
autocorrelation-consistent Newey-West standard errors are used to compute the t-statistics for 
the cumulative returns (see Newey and West (1987)).
17hother reason why we find this evidence hard to interpret is that the entire negative return 
over this holding period occurs in Januaries. The returns beyond the first year are close to zero 
in non-January months. 
--- PAGE 21 ---

--- PAGE 22 ---
85 Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers 
VII. Back-Testing the Strategy 
This section examines the extent to which the relative strength profits 
reported in the previous sections existed prior to 1965. Specifically, we 
replicate the test in Table VII, which tracks the performance of the 6-month 
relative strength portfolio in event time for both the 1927 to 1940 time period 
and the 1941 to 1964 time period. As Fama and French (1988) and others 
have noted, the market was extremely volatile and experienced a significant 
degree of mean reversion in the 1927 to 1940 period. In contrast, the market's 
volatility in the 1941 to 1964 period was similar to the volatility in the 1965 
to 1989 period and the market index did not exhibit mean reversion in the 
post-1940 period. 
Table VIII (Panel A) reports the returns of the 6-month relative strength 
strategy in the 36 event months over the 1927 to 1940 time period. The 
returns in this time period are significantly lower than the returns in the 
1965 to 1989 period, but the patterns of returns across event months is 
somewhat similar. The month 1 returns are strongly negative on average 
(about -5%). The returns in months 2 through 10 are statistically insignifi- 
cant, but the returns in the later months are substantially lower. The 
cumulative excess return equals -40.81% in month 36. 
These negative cumulative returns are likely to be due to two factors: First, 
because of the greater volatility in this period, many of the firms in the loser's 
decile were close to bankruptcy and thus had very high betas over the holding 
periods. The beta of the zero-cost 6-month/6-month strategy is about -0.5 in 
this period and it is substantially higher following periods of market declines. 
The second factor relates to the market's mean reversion in this time period. 
As the decomposition in Subsection 1II.A and the regression results in 
Subsection 111. B indicate, negative serial correlation in the market and large 
market movements will reduce the profits from relative strength strategies. 
This is because the relative strength strategy tends to select high- (low-) beta 
stocks following a market increase (decrease) and hence tends to perform 
poorly during market reversals. For example, following a 40% decline in the 
equally weighted index over the previous 6 months, the index rebounded with 
a 43% increase in July 1932. In this month the 6-month/6-month relative 
strength portfolio experienced a negative 40% return. In the following month 
the equally weighted index increased an additional 66% and the 6-month/6- 
month strategy lost 68%. In the 1930s there were four other months in which 
the 6-month/6-month strategy lost over 40%. Each occurred when the mar- 
ket increased substantially. 
Panel B of Table VIII reports the returns in the 36 event months for the 
1941 to 1964 period. The relative strength strategy returns over this time 
period are very similar to the returns in the more recent time period reported 
earlier. As in the 1965 to 1989 time period, the average return is slightly 
negative in month 1,significantly positive in month 2 through month 8, and 
negative in month 12 and beyond. In contrast to the findings for the 1965 to 
--- PAGE 23 ---
86 The Journal of Finance 
,1989 period, the positive cumulative return over the first 12 months dissi- 
pates almo~t entirely by month 24. 
VIII. Stock Returns Around Earnings Announcement Dates 
This section examines the returns of past winners and losers around their 
quarterly earnings announcement dates. By analyzing stock returns within a 
short window around the dissemination of important firm-specific informa- 
tion we have a sharp test that directly assesses the potential biases in market 
expectations. Consider, for example, the possibility that stock prices system- 
Table VIII 
Back-Testing the Strategy: Performance of Relative Strength 
Portfolios Prior to 1965 
The relative strength portfolios are formed based on 6-month lagged returns. The stocks are 
ranked in ascending order on the basis of 6-month lagged returns. The equally weighted portfolio 
of stocks in the lowest past return decile is the sell portfolio and the equally weighted portfolio of 
stocks in the highest past return decile is the buy portfolio. This table reports the average 
returns of the zero-cost, buy minus sell, portfolio in each month following the formation period. 
t is the month after portfolio formation. Autocorrelation consistent estimates of standard errors 
are used to compute the t-statistics for cumulative returns. 
Panel A: 1927--1940 -
Monthly Cumulative Monthly Cumulative Monthly Cumulative 
t Return Return t Return Return t Return Return 
--- PAGE 24 ---
Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers 
Table VIII-Continued 
Panel B: 1941-1964 
-.--. -- -- -- -
t 
Monthly 
Return 
Cumulative 
Return t 
Monthly 
Return 
Cumulative 
Return t 
Monthly 
Return 
Cumulative 
Return 
atically underreact to information about future earnings. In this case, the 
stock returns for past winners, which presumably had favorable information 
revealed in the past, should realize positive returns around the time when 
their earnings are actually announced. Similarly, past losers should realize 
negative returns around the time their earnings are announced.'* The 
quarterly earnings announcement dates used in this analysis are obtained 
from the COMPUSTAT quarterly industrial database. The sample period 
for this part of the study is 1980 to 1989, the period covered by the 1990 
COMPUSTAT quarterly file. On average, there are 429.2 available quarterly 
earnings announcements per month with matched stock return data. 
Our tests again separate firms into deciles based on their prior 6-month 
returns. The 3-day returns (days -2 to 0) of the individual stocks in these 
groups are then calculated around each of their quarterly earnings announce- 
ments that occur within 36 months of the date at which the stocks are ranked 
according to their past returns. Table IX reports the differences between the 
18chopra, Lakonishok, and Ritter (1992) use a similar approach to evaluate the evidence of 
long horizon overreaction documented by De Bondt and Thaler (1985). See also Bernard and 
Thomas (1990). 
--- PAGE 25 ---
The Journal of Finance 
Table M 
Quarterly Earnings Announcement Date Returns 
The stocks are ranked in ascending order on the basis of 6-month lagged returns. The stocks in 
the lowest past return decile are called the losers group and the stocks in the highest past return 
decile is called the winners group. The differences between the 3-day returns (returns on days 
-2 to 0) around quarterly earnings announcements for stocks in the winners group and the 
losers group are reported here (rp - ri). t is the month after the ranking date. The sample 
period is January 1980 to December 1989. 
average announcement period returns for the winners and losers deciles in 
each of the 36 months following the ranking date. The pattern of announce- 
ment date returns presented in this table is consistent with the pattern of the 
zero-cost portfolio returns reported in Table VII. For the first 6 months the 
announcement date returns of the past winners exceed the announcement 
date returns of the past losers by over 0.7% on average, and is statistically 
significant in each of these 6 months. Since there are on average 2 quarterly 
earnings announcements per firm within a 6-month period, the returns 
around the earnings announcements represents about 25% of the zero-cost 
portfolio returns over this holding period. 
The negative announcement period returns in later months are consistent 
with the negative relative strength portfolio returns beyond month 12 docu- 
mented earlier (see Table VII). From months 8 through 20 the differences in 
--- PAGE 26 ---
89 Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers 
announcement date returns are negative and are generally statistically sig- 
nificant. The announcement period returns are especially significant in 
months 11through 18 where they average about -0.7%. In the later months 
the differences between the announcement period returns of the winners and 
losers are generally negative but are close to zero. 
The predictability of stock returns around quarterly earnings announce- 
ments documented in Table IX is similar to the recent findings of Bernard 
and Thomas (1990). Bernard and Thomas find that average returns around 
quarterly earnings announcement dates are significantly positive following a 
favorable earnings surprise in the previous quarter. This is consistent with 
the positive announcement returns we see in the first 7 months in Table IX. 
Bernard and Thomas also find that the average return around earnings 
announcement dates is significantly negative 4 quarters after a positive 
earnings surprise. The significant negative returns around earnings an-
nouncement dates in months 11through 18 are consistent with this finding. 
M.Conclusions 
Trading strategies that buy past winners and sell past losers realize 
significant abnormal returns over the 1965 to 1989 period. For example, the 
strategy we examine in most detail, which selects stocks based on their past 
6-month returns and holds them for 6 months, realizes a compounded excess 
return of 12.01% per year on average. Additional evidence indicates that the 
profitability of the relative strength strategies are not due to their systematic 
risk. The results of our tests also indicate that the relative strength profits 
cannot be attributed to lead-lag effects that result from delayed stock price 
reactions to common factors. The evidence is, however, consistent with de- 
layed price reactions to firm-specific information. 
The returns of the zero-cost winners minus losers portfolio were examined 
in each of the 36 months following the portfolio formation date. With the 
exception of the first month, this portfolio realizes positive returns in each of 
the 12 months after the formation date. However, the longer-term perfor- 
mances of these past winners and losers reveal that half of their excess 
returns in the year following the portfolio formation date dissipate within the 
following 2 years. 
The returns of the stocks in the winners and losers portfolios around their 
earnings announcements in the 36 monkhs following the formation period 
were also examined and a similar pattern was found. Specifically, stocks in 
the winners portfolio realize significantly higher returns than the stocks in 
the losers portfolio around the quarterly earnings announcements that are 
made in the first few months following the formation date. However, the 
announcement date returns in the 8 to 20 months following the formation 
date are significantly higher for the stocks in the losers portfolio than for the 
stocks in the winners portfolio. 
--- PAGE 27 ---
90 The Journal of Finance 
The evidence of initial positive and later negative relative strength returns 
suggests that common interpretations of return reversals as evidence of 
overreaction and return persistence (i.e., past winners achieving positive 
returns in the future) as evidence of underreaction are probably overly 
simplistic. A more sophisticated model of investor behavior is needed to 
explain the observed pattern of returns. One interpretation of our results is 
that transactions by investors who buy past winners and sell past losers 
move prices away from their long-run values temporarily and thereby cause 
prices to overreact. This interpretation is consistent with the analysis of 
DeLong, Shleifer, Summers, and Waldman (1990) who explore the implica- 
tions of what they call "positive feedback traders" on market price. Alterna- 
tively, it is possible that the market underreacts to information about the 
short-term prospects of firms but overreacts to information about their 
long-term prospects. This is plausible given that the nature of the informa- 
tion available about a firm's short-term prospects, such as earnings forecasts, 
is different from the nature of the more ambiguous information that is used 
by investors to assess a firm's longer-term prospects. 
The evidence in this paper does not allow us to distinguish between these 
two hypotheses about investor behavior. In addition, there are probably other 
explanations for these results. Given that our results suggest that investor 
expectations are systematically biased, further research that attempts to 
identify explanations for these empirical regularities would be of interest. 
REFERENCES 
Ball, Ray and S. P. Kothari, 1989, Nonstationary expected returns: Implications for tests of 
market efficiency and serial correlation in returns, Journal of Financial Economics 25, 
51-74. 
Banz, Rolf, 1981, The relationship between return and market value of common stocks, Journal 
of Financial Economics 9, 3-18. 
Berkowitz, Stephen A,, Dennis E. Logue, and Eugene A. Noser, 1988, The total costs of 
transactions on the NYSE, Journal of Finance 43, 97-112. 
Bernard, Arnold, 1984, How to Use the Value Line Investment Survey: A Subscriber's Guide 
(Value Line, New York). 
Bernard, Victor and Jacob Thomas, 1990, Evidence that stock prices do not fully reflect the 
implications of current earnings for future earnings, Journal of Accounting and Economics 
13, 305-340. 
Chan, K. C., 1988, On the contrarian investment strategy, Journal of Business 61, 147-163. 
Chopra, Navin, Josef Lakonishok, and Jay Ritter, 1992, Measuring abnormal returns: Do stocks 
overreact? Journal of Financial Economics 31, 235-268. 
Copeland, Thomas and David Mayers, 1982, The Value Line enigma (1965-1978): A case study 
of performance evaluation issues, Journal of Financial Economics 10, 289-321. 
De Bondt, Werner F. M. and Richard Thaler, 1985, Does the stock market overreact? Journal of 
Finance 40, 793-805. 
, 1987, Further evidence of investor overreaction and stock market seasonality, Journal 
of Finance 42, 557-581. 
De Long, Bradford J., Andrei Shleifer, Lawrence H. Summers, and Robert J. Waldman, 1990, 
Positive Feedback Investment Strategies and Destabilizing Rational Speculation, Journal of 
Finance 45, 379-395. 
--- PAGE 28 ---
91 Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers 
Fama, Eugene and Kenneth French, 1988, Permanent and temporary components of stock 
prices, Journal of Political Economy 96, 246-273. 
, 1992, The cross-section of expected stock returns, Journal of Finance 47, 427-465. 
Fama, Eugene, and J. D. MacBeth, 1973, Risk return and equilibrium: Empirical test, Journal of 
Political Economy 81, 607-636. 
Grinblatt, Mark and Sheridan Titman, 1989, Mutual fund performance: An analysis of quarterly 
portfolio holdings, Journal of Business 62, 394-415. 
, 199i, Performance measurement without benchmarks: An examination of mutual fund 
returns, Working paper, University of California at Los Angeles. 
Jegadeesh, Narasimhan, 1987, Predictable behavior of security returns and tests of asset pricing 
models, Ph.D. dissertation, Columbia University. 
, 1990, Evidence of predictable behavior of security returns, Journal of Finance 45, 
881-898. 
-- , 1992, Does market risk really explain the size effect?, Journal of Financial and 
Quantitative Analysis 10, 337-351. 
-- and Sheridan Titman, 1991, Short horizon return reversals and the bid-ask spread, 
Working paper, University of California at Los Angeles. 
Jensen, Michael and George Bennington, 1970, Random walks and technical theories: Some 
additional evidence, Journal of Finance 25, 469-482. 
Kahneman, D. and A. Tversky, 1982, Intuitive prediction: Biases and corrective procedures, in D. 
Kahneman, P. Slovic, and A. Tversky, eds.: Judgement Under Uncertaint.~: Heuristics and 
Biases (Cambridge University Press, London). 
Keim, Donald, 1989, Trading patterns, bid-ask spreads, and estimated security returns: The case 
of common stocks at calendar turning points, Journal of Financial Economics 25, 75-98. 
Lehmann, Bruce, 1990, Fads, martingales and market efficiency, Quarterly Journal of Eco- 
nomics 105, 1-28. 
Levy, Robert, 1967, Relative strength as a criterion for investment selection, Journal of Finance 
22, 595-610. 
Lo, Andrew and Craig MacKinlay, 1990, When are contrarian profits due to stock market 
overreaction?, Review of Financial Studies 3, 175-205. 
Newey, W. K. and K. D. West, 1987, A Simple positive definite, heteroskedasticitg and autocorre- 
lation consistent covariance matrix, Econometrica 55, 703-705. 
Roll, Richard, 1983, Vas ist Das? Journal of Portfolio Management, 18-28. 
Scholes, Myron and Joseph Williams, 1977, Estimating betas from nonsynchronous data, Jour-
nal of Financial Economics 5, 309-327. 
Shiller, Robert J., 1981, Do stock prices move too much to be justified by subsequent changes in 
dividends? American Economic Review 71, 421--436. 
Stickel, Scott, 1985, The effect of Value Line Investment Survey rank changes on common stock 
prices, Journal of Financial Economics 14, 121-144. 
Zarowin, Paul, 1990, Size, seasonality, and stock market overreaction, Journal of Financial and 
Quantitative Analysis 25, 113-125. 
--- PAGE 29 ---
You have printed the following article:
Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers: Implications for Stock Market Efficiency
Narasimhan Jegadeesh; Sheridan Titman
The Journal of Finance, Vol. 48, No. 1. (Mar., 1993), pp. 65-91.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1082%28199303%2948%3A1%3C65%3ARTBWAS%3E2.0.CO%3B2-Y
This article references the following linked citations. If you are trying to access articles from an
off-campus location, you may be required to first logon via your library web site to access JSTOR. Please
visit your library's website or contact a librarian to learn about options for remote access to JSTOR.
[Footnotes]
1 Does the Stock Market Overreact?
Werner F. M. De Bondt; Richard Thaler
The Journal of Finance, Vol. 40, No. 3, Papers and Proceedings of the Forty-Third Annual Meeting
American Finance Association, Dallas, Texas, December 28-30, 1984. (Jul., 1985), pp. 793-805.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1082%28198507%2940%3A3%3C793%3ADTSMO%3E2.0.CO%3B2-Q
1 Do Stock Prices Move Too Much to be Justified by Subsequent Changes in Dividends?
Robert J. Shiller
The American Economic Review, Vol. 71, No. 3. (Jun., 1981), pp. 421-436.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0002-8282%28198106%2971%3A3%3C421%3ADSPMTM%3E2.0.CO%3B2-2
2 On the Contrarian Investment Strategy
K. C. Chan
The Journal of Business, Vol. 61, No. 2. (Apr., 1988), pp. 147-163.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0021-9398%28198804%2961%3A2%3C147%3AOTCIS%3E2.0.CO%3B2-7
2 Size, Seasonality, and Stock Market Overreaction
Paul Zarowin
The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Vol. 25, No. 1. (Mar., 1990), pp. 113-125.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1090%28199003%2925%3A1%3C113%3ASSASMO%3E2.0.CO%3B2-X
http://www.jstor.org
LINKED CITATIONS
- Page 1 of 6 -
NOTE: The reference numbering from the original has been maintained in this citation list.
--- PAGE 30 ---
6 Does the Stock Market Overreact?
Werner F. M. De Bondt; Richard Thaler
The Journal of Finance, Vol. 40, No. 3, Papers and Proceedings of the Forty-Third Annual Meeting
American Finance Association, Dallas, Texas, December 28-30, 1984. (Jul., 1985), pp. 793-805.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1082%28198507%2940%3A3%3C793%3ADTSMO%3E2.0.CO%3B2-Q
7 When are Contrarian Profits Due to Stock Market Overreaction?
Andrew W. Lo; A. Craig MacKinlay
The Review of Financial Studies, Vol. 3, No. 2. (1990), pp. 175-205.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0893-9454%281990%293%3A2%3C175%3AWACPDT%3E2.0.CO%3B2-5
l0 Risk, Return, and Equilibrium: Empirical Tests
Eugene F. Fama; James D. MacBeth
The Journal of Political Economy, Vol. 81, No. 3. (May - Jun., 1973), pp. 607-636.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-3808%28197305%2F06%2981%3A3%3C607%3ARRAEET%3E2.0.CO%3B2-J
11 Risk, Return, and Equilibrium: Empirical Tests
Eugene F. Fama; James D. MacBeth
The Journal of Political Economy, Vol. 81, No. 3. (May - Jun., 1973), pp. 607-636.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-3808%28197305%2F06%2981%3A3%3C607%3ARRAEET%3E2.0.CO%3B2-J
11 On the Stationarity of Transition Probability Matrices of Common Stocks
Bruce D. Fielitz
The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Vol. 10, No. 2. (Jun., 1975), pp. 327-339.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1090%28197506%2910%3A2%3C327%3AOTSOTP%3E2.0.CO%3B2-V
11 The Cross-Section of Expected Stock Returns
Eugene F. Fama; Kenneth R. French
The Journal of Finance, Vol. 47, No. 2. (Jun., 1992), pp. 427-465.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1082%28199206%2947%3A2%3C427%3ATCOESR%3E2.0.CO%3B2-N
http://www.jstor.org
LINKED CITATIONS
- Page 2 of 6 -
NOTE: The reference numbering from the original has been maintained in this citation list.
--- PAGE 31 ---
13 The Total Cost of Transactions on the NYSE
Stephen A. Berkowitz; Dennis E. Logue; Eugene A. Noser, Jr.
The Journal of Finance, Vol. 43, No. 1. (Mar., 1988), pp. 97-112.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1082%28198803%2943%3A1%3C97%3ATTCOTO%3E2.0.CO%3B2-D
16 A Simple, Positive Semi-Definite, Heteroskedasticity and Autocorrelation Consistent
Covariance Matrix
Whitney K. Newey; Kenneth D. West
Econometrica, Vol. 55, No. 3. (May, 1987), pp. 703-708.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0012-9682%28198705%2955%3A3%3C703%3AASPSHA%3E2.0.CO%3B2-F
18 Does the Stock Market Overreact?
Werner F. M. De Bondt; Richard Thaler
The Journal of Finance, Vol. 40, No. 3, Papers and Proceedings of the Forty-Third Annual Meeting
American Finance Association, Dallas, Texas, December 28-30, 1984. (Jul., 1985), pp. 793-805.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1082%28198507%2940%3A3%3C793%3ADTSMO%3E2.0.CO%3B2-Q
References
The Total Cost of Transactions on the NYSE
Stephen A. Berkowitz; Dennis E. Logue; Eugene A. Noser, Jr.
The Journal of Finance, Vol. 43, No. 1. (Mar., 1988), pp. 97-112.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1082%28198803%2943%3A1%3C97%3ATTCOTO%3E2.0.CO%3B2-D
On the Contrarian Investment Strategy
K. C. Chan
The Journal of Business, Vol. 61, No. 2. (Apr., 1988), pp. 147-163.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0021-9398%28198804%2961%3A2%3C147%3AOTCIS%3E2.0.CO%3B2-7
http://www.jstor.org
LINKED CITATIONS
- Page 3 of 6 -
NOTE: The reference numbering from the original has been maintained in this citation list.
--- PAGE 32 ---
Does the Stock Market Overreact?
Werner F. M. De Bondt; Richard Thaler
The Journal of Finance, Vol. 40, No. 3, Papers and Proceedings of the Forty-Third Annual Meeting
American Finance Association, Dallas, Texas, December 28-30, 1984. (Jul., 1985), pp. 793-805.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1082%28198507%2940%3A3%3C793%3ADTSMO%3E2.0.CO%3B2-Q
Further Evidence on Investor Overreaction and Stock Market Seasonality
Werner F. M. De Bondt; Richard H. Thaler
The Journal of Finance, Vol. 42, No. 3, Papers and Proceedings of the Forty-Fifth Annual Meeting
of the American Finance Association, New Orleans, Louisiana, December 28-30, 1986. (Jul., 1987),
pp. 557-581.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1082%28198707%2942%3A3%3C557%3AFEOIOA%3E2.0.CO%3B2-E
Positive Feedback Investment Strategies and Destabilizing Rational Speculation
J. Bradford de Long; Andrei Shleifer; Lawrence H. Summers; Robert J. Waldmann
The Journal of Finance, Vol. 45, No. 2. (Jun., 1990), pp. 379-395.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1082%28199006%2945%3A2%3C379%3APFISAD%3E2.0.CO%3B2-Y
Permanent and Temporary Components of Stock Prices
Eugene F. Fama; Kenneth R. French
The Journal of Political Economy, Vol. 96, No. 2. (Apr., 1988), pp. 246-273.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-3808%28198804%2996%3A2%3C246%3APATCOS%3E2.0.CO%3B2-B
The Cross-Section of Expected Stock Returns
Eugene F. Fama; Kenneth R. French
The Journal of Finance, Vol. 47, No. 2. (Jun., 1992), pp. 427-465.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1082%28199206%2947%3A2%3C427%3ATCOESR%3E2.0.CO%3B2-N
Risk, Return, and Equilibrium: Empirical Tests
Eugene F. Fama; James D. MacBeth
The Journal of Political Economy, Vol. 81, No. 3. (May - Jun., 1973), pp. 607-636.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-3808%28197305%2F06%2981%3A3%3C607%3ARRAEET%3E2.0.CO%3B2-J
http://www.jstor.org
LINKED CITATIONS
- Page 4 of 6 -
NOTE: The reference numbering from the original has been maintained in this citation list.
--- PAGE 33 ---
Mutual Fund Performance: An Analysis of Quarterly Portfolio Holdings
Mark Grinblatt; Sheridan Titman
The Journal of Business, Vol. 62, No. 3. (Jul., 1989), pp. 393-416.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0021-9398%28198907%2962%3A3%3C393%3AMFPAAO%3E2.0.CO%3B2-M
Evidence of Predictable Behavior of Security Returns
Narasimhan Jegadeesh
The Journal of Finance, Vol. 45, No. 3, Papers and Proceedings, Forty-ninth Annual Meeting,
American Finance Association, Atlanta, Georgia, December 28-30, 1989. (Jul., 1990), pp. 881-898.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1082%28199007%2945%3A3%3C881%3AEOPBOS%3E2.0.CO%3B2-%23
On the Stationarity of Transition Probability Matrices of Common Stocks
Bruce D. Fielitz
The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Vol. 10, No. 2. (Jun., 1975), pp. 327-339.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1090%28197506%2910%3A2%3C327%3AOTSOTP%3E2.0.CO%3B2-V
Random Walks and Technical Theories: Some Additional Evidence
Michael C. Jensen; George A. Benington
The Journal of Finance, Vol. 25, No. 2, Papers and Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth Annual
Meeting of the American Finance Association New York, N.Y. December, 28-30, 1969. (May,
1970), pp. 469-482.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1082%28197005%2925%3A2%3C469%3ARWATTS%3E2.0.CO%3B2-9
Fads, Martingales, and Market Efficiency
Bruce N. Lehmann
The Quarterly Journal of Economics, Vol. 105, No. 1. (Feb., 1990), pp. 1-28.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0033-5533%28199002%29105%3A1%3C1%3AFMAME%3E2.0.CO%3B2-A
Relative Strength as a Criterion for Investment Selection
Robert A. Levy
The Journal of Finance, Vol. 22, No. 4. (Dec., 1967), pp. 595-610.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1082%28196712%2922%3A4%3C595%3ARSAACF%3E2.0.CO%3B2-6
http://www.jstor.org
LINKED CITATIONS
- Page 5 of 6 -
NOTE: The reference numbering from the original has been maintained in this citation list.
--- PAGE 34 ---
When are Contrarian Profits Due to Stock Market Overreaction?
Andrew W. Lo; A. Craig MacKinlay
The Review of Financial Studies, Vol. 3, No. 2. (1990), pp. 175-205.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0893-9454%281990%293%3A2%3C175%3AWACPDT%3E2.0.CO%3B2-5
A Simple, Positive Semi-Definite, Heteroskedasticity and Autocorrelation Consistent
Covariance Matrix
Whitney K. Newey; Kenneth D. West
Econometrica, Vol. 55, No. 3. (May, 1987), pp. 703-708.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0012-9682%28198705%2955%3A3%3C703%3AASPSHA%3E2.0.CO%3B2-F
Do Stock Prices Move Too Much to be Justified by Subsequent Changes in Dividends?
Robert J. Shiller
The American Economic Review, Vol. 71, No. 3. (Jun., 1981), pp. 421-436.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0002-8282%28198106%2971%3A3%3C421%3ADSPMTM%3E2.0.CO%3B2-2
Size, Seasonality, and Stock Market Overreaction
Paul Zarowin
The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Vol. 25, No. 1. (Mar., 1990), pp. 113-125.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-1090%28199003%2925%3A1%3C113%3ASSASMO%3E2.0.CO%3B2-X
http://www.jstor.org
LINKED CITATIONS
- Page 6 of 6 -
NOTE: The reference numbering from the original has been maintained in this citation list.